PMID:10073695	Volchkov VE, Volchkova VA, Chepurnov AA, Blinov VM, Dolnik O, Netesov SV, Feldmann H	J Gen Virol. 80 ( Pt 2):355-62	1999	Characterization of the L gene and 5' trailer region of Ebola virus. 	The nucleotide sequences of the L gene and 5' trailer region of Ebola virus strain Mayinga (subtype Zaire) have been determined, thus completing the sequence of the Ebola virus genome. The putative transcription start signal of the L gene was identical to the determined 5' terminus of the L mRNA (5' GAGGAAGAUUAA) and showed a high degree of similarity to the corresponding regions of other Ebola virus genes. The 3' end of the L mRNA terminated with 5' AUUAUAAAAAA, a sequence which is distinct from the proposed transcription termination signals of other genes. The 5' trailer sequence of the Ebola virus genomic RNA consisted of 676 nt and revealed a self-complementary sequence at the extreme end which may play an important role in virus replication. The L gene contained a single ORF encoding a polypeptide of 2212 aa. The deduced amino acid sequence showed identities of about 73 and 44% to the L proteins of Ebola virus strain Maleo (subtype Sudan) and Marburg virus, respectively. Sequence comparison studies of the Ebola virus L proteins with several corresponding proteins of other non-segmented, negative-strand RNA viruses, including Marburg viruses, confirmed a close relationship between filoviruses and members of the Paramyxovirinae. The presence of several conserved linear domains commonly found within L proteins of other members of the order Mononegavirales identified this protein as the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of Ebola virus. 
PMID:10466813	Wilcock D, Duncan SA, Traktman P, Zhang WH, Smith GL	J Gen Virol. 80 ( Pt 8):2137-48	1999	The vaccinia virus A4OR gene product is a nonstructural, type II membrane glycoprotein that is expressed at the cell surface. 	Gene A40R from vaccinia virus (VV) strain Western Reserve has been characterized. The open reading frame (ORF) was predicted to encode a 159 amino acid, 18152 Da protein with amino acid similarity to C-type animal lectins and to the VV A34R protein, a component of extracellular enveloped virus (EEV). Northern blotting and S1 nuclease mapping showed that gene A40R is transcribed early during infection from a position 12 nucleotides upstream of the ORF, producing a transcript of approximately 600 nucleotides. Rabbit anti-sera were raised against bacterial fusion proteins containing parts of the A40R protein. These were used to identify an 18 kDa primary translation product and N- and O-glycosylated forms of 28, 35 and 38 kDa. The A40R proteins were detected early during infection, formed higher molecular mass complexes under non-reducing conditions and were present on the cell surface but absent from virions. The proteins partitioned with integral membrane proteins in Triton X-114. Canine pancreatic microsomal membranes protected in vitro-translated A40R from proteinase K digestion, suggesting the A40R protein has type II membrane topology. A mutant virus with the A40R gene disrupted after amino acid 50, so as to remove the entire lectin-like domain, and a revertant virus were constructed. Disruption of the A40R gene did not affect virus plaque size, in vitro growth rate and titre, EEV formation, or virus virulence in a murine intranasal model. 
PMID:10500279	Chen J, Shi N, Cheng Y, Diao A, Wilson TM, Antoniw JF, Adams MJ	Virus Res. 64(1):13-21	1999	Molecular analysis of barley yellow mosaic virus isolates from China. 	The complete sequences of both RNAs of an isolate of barley yellow mosaic virus from Yancheng, Jiangsu province, China, were determined. The sequences resembled those of an isolate from Japan (96.8% identical nucleotides for RNA1; 95.7% for RNA2) more closely than one from Germany (93.9 and 91.0%, respectively). The greatest differences between the Chinese and Japanese isolates were in the 5'-UTRs of RNAs 1 and 2 (88.9 and 91.6% identical nucleotides, respectively) and there were also some other regions of difference in P1 (RNA2) and P3, CI, NIa and the 5' end of the coat protein (CP) (RNA1). Molecular differences between isolates from ten sites widely distributed in Eastern China were studied by sequencing RNA regions coding for the CP (RNA1) and the N-terminus of the P2 protein (RNA2). The P2 fragment was more variable than the CP, and phylogenetic analysis of both regions showed that Asian and European isolates formed distinct clusters. Differences between isolates were also revealed by single-strand conformation polymorphism of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction products, spanning the full lengths of both RNA1 and RNA2. However, molecular variations between isolates could not be linked to earlier results showing differences in cultivar response. 
PMID:10502513	Flores ER, Allen-Hoffmann BL, Lee D, Sattler CA, Lambert PF	Virology. 262(2):344-54	1999	Establishment of the human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16) life cycle in an immortalized human foreskin keratinocyte cell line. 	The study of human papillomaviruses (HPVs) in cell culture has been hindered because of the difficulty in recreating the three-dimensional structure of the epithelium on which the virus depends to complete its life cycle. Additionally, the study of genetic mutations in the HPV genome and its effects on the viral life cycle are difficult using the current method of transfecting molecularly cloned HPV genomes into early-passage human foreskin keratinocytes (HFKs) because of the limited life span of these cells. Unless the HPV genome transfected into the early-passage HFK extends the life span of the cell, analysis of stable transfectants becomes difficult. In this study, we have used BC-1-Ep/SL cells, an immortalized human foreskin keratinocyte cell line, to recreate the HPV-16 life cycle. This cell line exhibits many characteristics of the early-passage HFKs including the ability to stratify and terminally differentiate in an organotypic raft culture system. Because of their similarity to early-passage HFKs, these cells were tested for their ability to support the HPV-16 life cycle. The BC-1-Ep/SL cells could stably maintain two HPV genotypes, HPV-16 and HPV-31b, episomally. Additionally, when the BC-1-Ep/SL cell line was stably transfected with HPV-16 and cultured using the organotypic raft culture system (rafts), it sustained the HPV-16 life cycle. Evidence for the productive stage of the HPV-16 life cycle was provided by: DNA in situ hybridization demonstrating HPV-16 DNA amplification in the suprabasal layers of the rafts, immunohistochemical staining for L1 showing the presence of capsid protein in the suprabasal layers of the rafts, and electron microscopy indicating the presence of virus like particles (VLPs) in nuclei from cells in the differentiated layers of the rafts. 
PMID:10509717	Ahne W, Batts WN, Kurath G, Winton JR	Virus Res. 63(1-2):65-74	1999	Comparative sequence analyses of sixteen reptilian paramyxoviruses. 	Viral genomic RNA of Fer-de-Lance virus (FDLV), a paramyxovirus highly pathogenic for reptiles, was reverse transcribed and cloned. Plasmids with significant sequence similarities to the hemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN) and polymerase (L) genes of mammalian paramyxoviruses were identified by BLAST search. Partial sequences of the FDLV genes were used to design primers for amplification by nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequencing of 518-bp L gene and 352-bp HN gene fragments from a collection of 15 previously uncharacterized reptilian paramyxoviruses. Phylogenetic analyses of the partial L and HN sequences produced similar trees in which there were two distinct subgroups of isolates that were supported with maximum bootstrap values, and several intermediate isolates. Within each subgroup the nucleotide divergence values were less than 2.5%, while the divergence between the two subgroups was 20-22%. This indicated that the two subgroups represent distinct virus species containing multiple virus strains. The five intermediate isolates had nucleotide divergence values of 11-20% and may represent additional distinct species. In addition to establishing diversity among reptilian paramyxoviruses, the phylogenetic groupings showed some correlation with geographic location, and clearly demonstrated a low level of host species-specificity within these viruses. 
PMID:10516003|PMCID:112929	Olsen KE, Andersen KB	J Virol. 73(11):8975-81	1999	Palmitoylation of the intracytoplasmic R peptide of the transmembrane envelope protein in Moloney murine leukemia virus. 	Previously it was reported that the 16-amino-acid (aa) C-terminal cytoplasmic tail of Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV) transmembrane protein Pr15E is cleaved off during virus synthesis, yielding the mature, fusion active transmembrane protein p15E and the 16-aa peptide (R peptide or p2E). It remains to be elucidated how the R peptide impairs fusion activity of the uncleaved Pr15E. The R peptide from MoMLV was analyzed by Tricine-sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunostained with antiserum against the synthetic 16-aa R peptide. The R peptide resolved with an apparent molecular mass of 7 kDa and not the 4 kDa seen with the corresponding synthetic peptide. The 7-kDa R peptide was found to be membrane bound in MoMLV-infected NIH 3T3 cells, showing that cleavage of the 7-kDa R-peptide tail must occur before or during budding of progeny virions, in which only small amounts of the 7-kDa R peptide were found. The 7-kDa R peptide was palmitoylated since it could be labeled with [(3)H]palmitic acid, which explains its membrane association, slower migration on gels, and high sensitivity in immunoblotting. The present results are in contrast to previous findings showing equimolar amounts of R peptide and p15E in virions. The discrepancy, however, can be explained by the presence of nonpalmitoylated R peptide in virions, which were poorly detected by immunoblotting. A mechanistic model is proposed. The uncleaved R peptide can, due to its lipid modification, control the conformation of the ectodomain of the transmembrane protein and thereby govern membrane fusion. 
PMID:10567650	James VL, Lambden PR, Deng Y, Caul EO, Clarke IN	J Gen Virol. 80 ( Pt 12):3181-7	1999	Molecular characterization of human group C rotavirus genes 6, 7 and 9. 	Genes 6, 7 and 9 of human group C rotavirus 'Bristol' strain, encoding non-structural proteins (NSP) 3, 1 and 2, respectively, were cloned and sequenced. Human group C rotavirus genome segment 6 is 1350 bp and contains a single ORF of 1231 nucleotides (encoding 402 amino acids). Genome segment 7 is 1270 bp and encodes a protein of 394 amino acids and genome segment 9 is 1037 bp and encodes a 312 amino acid protein. The human group C rotavirus genes 6, 7 and 9 showed 78, 67 and 88% sequence identity, respectively, to the corresponding porcine group C rotavirus genes. The derived protein sequences were compared with those of the porcine 'Cowden' group C and mammalian group A rotavirus strains. The human group C rotavirus NSP1 protein sequence is one amino acid longer than the porcine group C equivalent. In common with group A and porcine group C rotaviruses, the human group C rotavirus NSP1 protein has a zinc finger motif. Human group C rotavirus NSP2 has two hydrophobic heptad repeat regions, a basic, RNA-binding domain and a basic, proline-rich region. Human group C rotavirus NSP3 has both single- and double-stranded RNA-binding domains and several hydrophobic heptad repeat regions, one of which forms a leucine zipper. This work completes the molecular characterization of the non-structural proteins of a human group C rotavirus. Phylogenetic analysis of all the non-structural genes of group A, B and C rotaviruses suggests that these viruses have diverged at a constant rate from a common ancestor. 
PMID:10603327	Volchkova VA, Klenk HD, Volchkov VE	Virology. 265(1):164-71	1999	Delta-peptide is the carboxy-terminal cleavage fragment of the nonstructural small glycoprotein sGP of Ebola virus. 	In the present study we have investigated processing and maturation of the nonstructural small glycoprotein (sGP) of Ebola virus. When sGP expressed from vaccinia virus vectors was analyzed by pulse-chase experiments using SDS-PAGE under reducing conditions, the mature form and two different precursors have been identified. First, the endoplasmic reticulum form sGP(er), full-length sGP with oligomannosidic N-glycans, was detected, sGP(er) was then replaced by the Golgi-specific precursor pre-sGP, full-length sGP containing complex N-glycans. This precursor was finally converted by proteolysis into mature sGP and a smaller cleavage fragment, Delta-peptide. Studies employing site-directed mutagenesis revealed that sGP was cleaved at a multibasic amino acid motif at positions 321 to 324 of the open reading frame. Cleavage was blocked by RVKR-chloromethyl ketone. Uncleaved pre-sGP forms a disulfide-linked homodimer and is secreted into the culture medium in the presence of the inhibitor as efficiently as proteolytically processed sGP. In vitro treatment of pre-sGP by purified recombinant furin resulted in efficient cleavage, confirming the importance of this proprotein convertase for the processing and maturation of sGP. Delta-peptide is also secreted into the culture medium and therefore represents a novel nonstructural expression product of the GP gene of Ebola virus. Both cleavage fragments contain sialic acid, but only Delta-peptide is highly O-glycosylated. 
PMID:10854161	Murcia-Nicolas A, Bolbach G, Blais JC, Beaud G	Virus Res. 59(1):1-12	1999	Identification by mass spectroscopy of three major early proteins associated with virosomes in vaccinia virus-infected cells. 	Virosomes are cytoplasmic sites of replication of vaccinia virus DNA and were prepared from virus-infected HeLa cells. The early virosomal proteins were 35S-labelled and SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed the presence of three major early 35S-labelled proteins of 34, 24 and 45 kDa. The masses of molecules present in the 34 and 24 kDa proteins were measured by the convenient and sensitive MALDI TOF mass spectroscopy technique. Identification of the three virosomal proteins was carried out by MALDI mass spectroscopy of corresponding tryptic digests. For each protein at least 13 measured masses matched, within less than 0.1 Da, calculated tryptic peptides of the vaccinia virus proteins H5R (34 kDa), E3L (24 kDa) and E5R (45 kDa). In addition, virosomes contained several structural proteins from the infecting virus and a 45 kDa keratin-related protein. This work demonstrates directly that the abundant early vaccinia virus proteins H5R, E3L and E5R are associated with the virosomes. 
PMID:10873746	Ng LF, Liu DX	Virology. 272(1):27-39	2000	Further characterization of the coronavirus infectious bronchitis virus 3C-like proteinase and determination of a new cleavage site. 	Coronavirus infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) encodes a trypsin-like proteinase (3C-like proteinase) by ORF 1a, which has been demonstrated to play a pivotal role in proteolytic processing of gene 1-encoded polyproteins. In our previous studies, the proteinase was identified as a 33-kDa protein in IBV-infected cells, and its catalytic center was shown to consist of H(2820) and C(2922) residues. It is released from the 1a and 1a/1b polyproteins by autoprocessing at two Q-S dipeptide bonds (Q(2779)-S(2780) and Q(3086)-S(3087)). In this report, further characterization of the two cleavage sites demonstrates that the N-terminal Q(2779)-S(2780) site is tolerant to mutations at the P1 position. Deletion of the C-terminal region of the proteinase shows that a significant amount of the enzymatic activity is maintained upon deletion of up to 67 amino acids, suggesting that the extreme C-terminal region may be dispensable for the proteolytic activity of the proteinase. Analysis of the autoprocessing kinetics in vitro reveals that proteolysis at the Q(2779)-S(2780) site is the first cleavage event mediated by this proteinase. This is followed by cleavage at the Q(3086)-S(3087) site. The occurrence of both cleavage events in intact cells is potentially rapid and efficient, as no intermediate cleavage products covering the proteinase were detected in either IBV-infected or transfected cells. Immunofluorescence microscopy and subcellular fractionation studies further show differential subcellular localization of the proteinase in IBV-infected cells and in cells expressing the 3C-like proteinase alone, indicating that additional roles in viral replication might be played by this protein. Finally, a Q-A (Q(3379)-A(3380)) dipeptide bond encoded by nucleotides 10,663 to 10,668 was demonstrated to be a cleavage site of the proteinase. 
PMID:11017800	Choi YG, Rao AL	Virology. 275(1):207-17	2000	Molecular studies on bromovirus capsid protein. VII. Selective packaging on BMV RNA4 by specific N-terminal arginine residuals. 	An arginine-rich RNA-binding motif (ARM) found at the N-proximal region of Brome mosaic virus (BMV) coat protein (CP) adopts alpha-helical conformation and shares homology with CPs of plant and insect RNA viruses, HIV-Rev and Tat proteins, bacterial antiterminators, and ribosomal splicing factors. The ARM of BMV CP, consisting of amino acids 9 through 21 with six arginine residues, is essential for RNA binding and subsequent packaging. In this study analysis of the alpha-helical contents of wild-type and mutant peptides by circular dichroism spectra identified protein determinants required for such conformation. Electrophoretic mobility-shift assays between viral RNA and BMV CP peptides with either proline or alanine substitutions revealed that the interaction is nonspecific. Expression in vivo of mature full-length BMV CP subunits, having the same substitutions for each arginine within the ARM, derived from biologically active clones was found to be competent to assemble into infectious virions and cause visible symptom phenotypes in whole plants. However, analysis of virion progeny RNA profiles of CP variants and subsequent in vitro reassembly assays between mutant CP and four BMV RNAs unveiled the ability of arginine residues at positions 10, 13, or 14 of the ARM to confer selective packaging of BMV RNA4. Thus, BMV CP contains determinants that specifically interact with RNA4 to ensure selective packaging. 
PMID:1103442	McClain WH, Marchin GL, Neidhardt FC	Virology. 67(2):385-94	1975	A gene of bacteriophage T4 controlling the modification of host valy-tRNA synthetase. 	 
PMID:11062050	Sosnovtsev SV, Green KY	Virology. 277(1):193-203	2000	Identification and genomic mapping of the ORF3 and VPg proteins in feline calicivirus virions. 	Two minor proteins with molecular masses of 8.5 and 15.5 kDa were identified in feline calicivirus (FCV) virions. Direct sequence analysis showed that the N-terminal sequence of the 8.5-kDa protein was identical to that of the predicted protein encoded by open reading frame 3 (ORF3) of the FCV genome. The N-terminal sequence of the 15.5-kDa protein corresponded to amino acids 961-980 of the FCV ORF1 polyprotein and mapped to the genomic location of the calicivirus VPg. Antisera raised against recombinant ORF3 protein or the N-terminal 20 amino acids of the putative VPg reacted with the corresponding proteins present in both a Western blot analysis of purified FCV virions and an immunofluorescence assay of FCV-infected cells. A comparative analysis of radioactivity incorporated into virion proteins during in vivo labeling experiments indicated that the ORF3 protein is likely present in one or two copies per virion. The mobility of the ORF3 protein present in virions was similar to that of the ORF3 protein found in FCV-infected cells or expressed in bacteria. Direct N- and C-terminal sequence analysis of the purified ORF3 protein obtained by expression in bacteria demonstrated the presence of intact, uncleaved termini, suggesting that the observed difference between the calculated and the apparent masses in SDS-PAGE was not due to proteolytic processing of the protein. 
PMID:11070021|PMCID:113220	Alcami A, Symons JA, Smith GL	J Virol. 74(23):11230-9	2000	The vaccinia virus soluble alpha/beta interferon (IFN) receptor binds to the cell surface and protects cells from the antiviral effects of IFN. 	Poxviruses encode a broad range of proteins that interfere with host immune functions, such as soluble versions of receptors for the cytokines tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1 beta, gamma interferon (IFN-gamma), IFN-alpha/beta, and chemokines. These virus-encoded cytokine receptors have a profound effect on virus pathogenesis and enable the study of the role of cytokines in virus infections. The vaccinia virus (VV) Western Reserve gene B18R encodes a secreted protein with 3 immunoglobulin domains that functions as a soluble receptor for IFN-alpha/beta. We have found that after secretion B18R binds to both uninfected and infected cells. The B18R protein present at the cell surface maintains the properties of the soluble receptor, binding IFN-alpha/beta with high affinity and with broad species specificity, and protects cells from the antiviral state induced by IFN-alpha/beta. VV strain Wyeth expressed a truncated B18R protein lacking the C-terminal immunoglobulin domain. This protein binds IFN with lower affinity and retains its ability to bind to cells, indicating that the C-terminal region of B18R contributes to IFN binding. The replication of a VV B18R deletion mutant in tissue culture was restricted in the presence of IFN-alpha, whereas the wild-type virus replicated normally. Binding of soluble recombinant B18R to cells protected the cultures from IFN and allowed VV replication. This represents a novel strategy of virus immune evasion in which secreted IFN-alpha/beta receptors not only bind the soluble cytokine but also bind to uninfected cells and protect them from the antiviral effects of IFN-alpha/beta, maintaining the cells' susceptibility to virus infections. The adaptation of this soluble receptor to block IFN-alpha/beta activity locally will help VV to replicate in the host and spread in tissues. This emphasizes the importance of local effects of IFN-alpha/beta against virus infections. 
PMID:11074128	Dhillon J, Cowley JA, Wang Y, Walker PJ	Virus Res. 70(1-2):87-95	2000	RNA polymerase (L) gene and genome terminal sequences of ephemeroviruses bovine ephemeral fever virus and Adelaide River virus indicate a close relationship to vesiculoviruses. 	The sequence of the RNA genome of bovine ephemeral fever virus (BEFV) was determined from the start of the L (polymerase) gene to the end of the untranslated 5' trailer sequence, completing the sequence of the 14900 nucleotide (nt) genome. The 6470 nt L gene encodes a single long ORF of 2144 amino acids with a deduced molecular weight of 249766 Da. The 70 nt BEFV 5' trailer region displays partial terminal complementarity with the 3' leader sequence and contains a 26 nt direct repeat of the U-rich domain of the 3' leader region. The 47 nt 5' trailer region of Adelaide River virus (ARV) displays terminal sequence similarity to the BEFV trailer and partial terminal complementarity with the ARV 3' leader sequence, but does not contain the direct repeat sequence. The BEFV L protein contains all characteristic sequence motifs of amino acid blocks I-VI, conserved among RNA polymerase proteins of single-stranded (-) RNA viruses, separated by regions of lower homology. Phylogenetic analysis using the complete BEFV L protein sequence indicated a closer relationship to vesicular stomatitis virus than to rabies virus. Sequence comparison of two conserved central domains encompassing blocks II and III and block VI of the BEFV and ARV L proteins indicated they are closely related. An extended phylogenetic analysis using the block III sequence, confirmed the relationship of these ephemeroviruses to vesiculo- and lyssaviruses and to other single-stranded (-) RNA viruses. 
PMID:11087097	Kato K, Daikoku T, Goshima F, Kume H, Yamaki K, Nishiyama Y	Arch Virol. 145(10):2149-62	2000	Synthesis, subcellular localization and VP16 interaction of the herpes simplex virus type 2 UL46 gene product. 	We developed a rabbit polyclonal antiserum reactive against a recombinant 6x His-UL46 fusion protein expressed in Escherichia coli, and using this antiserum identified the UL46 gene product of herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) to be phosphoproteins with apparent molecular masses of 82-, 84-, and 86-kDa in infected Vero cells. The UL46 protein was produced in the late phase of infection in a manner highly dependent on viral DNA synthesis, and was mainly distributed at the edge of the nucleus in the cytoplasm. Although its kinetics of production and its progress of distribution were different from those of the major tegument protein VP16 (the UL48 gene product or alpha-trans-inducing factor (alphaTIF)), most of the UL46 protein colocalized with VP16 in the late phase of infection, and copurified with it in column chromatography. Moreover, our data showed that the HSV-2 UL46 protein, when coexpressed with VP16, enhanced alpha4 promotor-regulated gene expression in a transient luciferase reporter assay, while the expression of the UL46 protein alone suppressed it. 
PMID:11162828	Mohamed MR, Latner DR, Condit RC, Niles EG	Virology. 280(1):143-52	2001	Interaction between the J3R subunit of vaccinia virus poly(A) polymerase and the H4L subunit of the viral RNA polymerase. 	J3R, the 39-kDa subunit of vaccinia virus poly(A) polymerase, is a multifunctional protein that catalyzes (nucleoside-2'-O-)-methyltransferase activity, serves as a poly(A) polymerase stimulatory factor, and acts as a postreplicative positive transcription elongation factor. Prior results support an association between poly(A) polymerase and the virion RNA polymerase. A possible direct interaction between J3R and H4L subunit of virion RNA polymerase was evaluated. J3R was shown to specifically bind to H4L amino acids 235-256, C terminal to NPH I binding site on H4L. H4L binds to the C-terminal region of J3R between amino acids 169 and 333. The presence of a J3R binding site near to the NPH I binding region on H4L led us to evaluate a physical interaction between NPH I and J3R. The NPH I binding site was located on J3R between amino acids 169 and 249, and J3R was shown to bind to NPH I between amino acids 457 and 524. To evaluate a role for J3R in early gene mRNA synthesis, transcription termination, and/or release, a transcription-competent extract prepared from cells infected with mutant virus lacking J3R, J3-7. Analysis of transcription activity demonstrated that J3R is not required for early mRNA synthesis and is not an essential factor in early gene transcription termination or transcript release in vitro. J3R interaction with NPH I and H4L may serve as a docking site for J3R on the virion RNA polymerase, linking transcription to mRNA cap formation and poly(A) addition. 
PMID:11257180	Merits A, Vasiljeva L, Ahola T, Kaeaeriaeinen L, Auvinen P	J Gen Virol. 82(Pt 4):765-73	2001	Proteolytic processing of Semliki Forest virus-specific non-structural polyprotein by nsP2 protease. 	The RNA replicase proteins of Semliki Forest virus (SFV) are translated as a P1234 polyprotein precursor that contains two putative autoproteases. Point mutations introduced into the predicted active sites of both proteases nsP2 (P2) and nsP4 (P4), separately or in combination, completely abolished virus replication in mammalian cells. The effects of these mutations on polyprotein processing were studied by in vitro translation and by expression of wild-type polyproteins P1234, P123, P23, P34 and their mutated counterparts in insect cells using recombinant baculoviruses. A mutation in the catalytic site of the P2 protease, C(478)A, (P2(CA)) completely abolished the processing of P12(CA)34, P12(CA)3 and P2(CA)3. Co-expression of P23 and P12(CA)34 in insect cells resulted in in trans cleavages at the P2/3 and P3/4 sites. Co-expression of P23 and P34 resulted in cleavage at the P3/4 site. In contrast, a construct with a mutation in the active site of the putative P4 protease, D(6)A, (P1234(DA)) was processed like the wild-type protein. P34 or its truncated forms were not processed when expressed alone. In insect cells, P4 was rapidly destroyed unless an inhibitor of proteosomal degradation was used. It is concluded that P2 is the only protease needed for the processing of SFV polyprotein P1234. Analysis of the cleavage products revealed that P23 or P2 could not cleave the P1/2 site in trans. 
PMID:11266218	Lopez Vazquez AL, Martin Alonso JM, Parra F	Arch Virol. 146(1):59-69	2001	Characterisation of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from Rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus produced in Escherichia coli. 	All positive-strand RNA viruses encode a RNA-dependent RNA polymerase which in most cases has been only identified on the basis of its sequence conservation. Catalytic activity has been experimentally demonstrated in only a handful of these viral proteins, including that from Rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus. Studies from our laboratory have reported that RHDV RNA polymerase produced in Escherichia coli was enzymatically active showing poly(A)-dependent poly(U) polymerase as well as RNA polymerase activity on heteropolymeric substrates. In this work, we have investigated the in vitro activity of the recombinant 3Dpol from RHDV, including ion requirements, resistance to inhibitors, substrate specificity as well as data on the initiation mechanism of the template-linked products derived from heteropolymeric RNA substrates. Our study demonstrates that in an in vitro reaction recombinant RHDV RNA polymerase generated the minus strand of the heteropolymeric RNA substrates by a "copy-back" mechanism that initiated at the template 3'-terminal OH. 
PMID:11338384	Sandgren M, Savenkov EI, Valkonen JP	Arch Virol. 146(3):467-77	2001	The readthrough region of Potato mop-top virus (PMTV) coat protein encoding RNA, the second largest RNA of PMTV genome, undergoes structural changes in naturally infected and experimentally inoculated plants. 	Molecular data on Potato mop-top virus (PMTV), genus Pomovirus, is currently mostly based on analysis of two Scottish isolates, PMTV-S and PMTV-T. Here we report the complete sequence of "the coat protein (CP) encoding RNA" of an isolate of PMTV obtained from the field in Sweden. Our data show that this RNA (3134 nt) is the second largest of the three RNA species in the tripartite PMTV genome, and it should, therefore, be referred to as RNA 2. This nomenclature is consistent with other pomoviruses. The sequence of the readthrough domain (RT) of RNA 2 was determined also in two additional field isolates of PMTV from Finland and Denmark. All three isolates contained a novel, 109 nucleotides long sequence at the 3'-end of the RT, which has not been found in PMTV-S and PMTV-T. Hence, our data suggest that the RNA 2 sequences previously described for the isolates PMTV-T and PMTV-S may represent deletion derivatives. The C-proximal half of RT contained many amino acid (aa) differences among the isolates, in contrast to only few aa differences in the N-proximal part of RT. Deletion variants of RNA 2 were generated from the Nordic isolates in potato tubers infected in the field, and in the mechanically inoculated test plants. All deletions started within a short region (18 nt) and removed 558-940 nt from the 3'-end of RT region. This study for the first time describes the full-length sequence of the "CP-encoding RNA" (RNA2) of PMTV, and reveals considerable aa variability and occurrence of deletion variants of RT in the field isolates of PMTV. 
PMID:11369870	Thiel V, Herold J, Schelle B, Siddell SG	J Gen Virol. 82(Pt 6):1273-81	2001	Infectious RNA transcribed in vitro from a cDNA copy of the human coronavirus genome cloned in vaccinia virus. 	The coronavirus genome is a positive-strand RNA of extraordinary size and complexity. It is composed of approximately 30000 nucleotides and it is the largest known autonomously replicating RNA. It is also remarkable in that more than two-thirds of the genome is devoted to encoding proteins involved in the replication and transcription of viral RNA. Here, a reverse-genetic system is described for the generation of recombinant coronaviruses. This system is based upon the in vitro transcription of infectious RNA from a cDNA copy of the human coronavirus 229E genome that has been cloned and propagated in vaccinia virus. This system is expected to provide new insights into the molecular biology and pathogenesis of coronaviruses and to serve as a paradigm for the genetic analysis of large RNA virus genomes. It also provides a starting point for the development of a new class of eukaryotic, multi-gene RNA vectors that are able to express several proteins simultaneously. 
PMID:11457991	Johnson KN, Johnson KL, Dasgupta R, Gratsch T, Ball LA	J Gen Virol. 82(Pt 8):1855-66	2001	Comparisons among the larger genome segments of six nodaviruses and their encoded RNA replicases. 	The Nodaviridae are a family of isometric RNA viruses that infect insects and fish. Their genomes, which are among the smallest known for animal viruses, consist of two co-encapsidated positive-sense RNA segments: RNA1 encodes the viral contribution to the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) which replicates the viral genome, whereas RNA2 encodes the capsid protein precursor. In this study, the RNA1 sequences of two insect nodaviruses - Nodamura virus (the prototype of the genus) and Boolarra virus - are reported as well as detailed comparisons of their encoded RdRps with those of three other nodaviruses of insects and one of fish. Although the 5' and 3' untranslated regions did not reveal common features of RNA sequence or secondary structure, these divergent viruses showed similar genome organizations and encoded RdRps that had from 26 to 99% amino acid sequence identity. All six RdRp amino acid sequences contained canonical RNA polymerase motifs in their C-terminal halves and conserved elements of predicted secondary structure throughout. A search for structural homologues in the protein structure database identified the poliovirus RdRp, 3D(pol), as the best template for homology modelling of the RNA polymerase domain of Pariacoto virus and allowed the construction of a congruent three-dimensional model. These results extend our understanding of the relationships among the RNA1 segments of nodaviruses and the predicted structures of their encoded RdRps. 
PMID:11689045	Loeber C, Anheier B, Lindow S, Klenk HD, Feldmann H	Virology. 289(2):224-9	2001	The Hantaan virus glycoprotein precursor is cleaved at the conserved pentapeptide WAASA. 	The medium segment of the tripartite negative-stranded RNA genome of hantaviruses encodes for the predicted glycoprotein precursor GPC. We have demonstrated here the expression of the glycoprotein precursor of Hantaan virus following transfection of mammalian cells. The cleavage of the precursor into the glycoproteins G1 and G2 followed the rules for signal peptides and seemed to occur directly at the pentapeptide motif "WAASA." Our data indicate that the signal peptidase complex is responsible for the proteolytic processing of the precursor GPC of Hantaan virus. The comparison of this region of the glycoprotein precursor, including the absolutely conserved WAASA motif, suggests a similar cleavage event for all hantavirus glycoproteins. 
PMID:11860675	Agostini I, Popov S, Hao T, Li JH, Dubrovsky L, Chaika O, Chaika N, Lewis R, Bukrinsky M	AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 18(4):283-8	2002	Phosphorylation of Vpr regulates HIV type 1 nuclear import and macrophage infection. 	Viral protein R (Vpr) of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) is a small accessory protein that regulates nuclear import of the viral preintegration complex and facilitates infection of nondividing cells, such as macrophages. Studies demonstrated that a fraction of Vpr molecules is phosphorylated in the virions and in HIV-1-infected cells, but the role of phosphorylation in nuclear import activity of Vpr has not been established. We found that Vpr is phosphorylated predominantly on the serine residue in position 79, and mutations affecting Vpr phosphorylation significantly attenuated viral replication in macrophages, but not in activated T lymphocytes or cell lines. The replication defect was mapped by polymerase chain reaction analysis to the step of nuclear import. These results suggest that phosphorylation of Vpr regulates its activity in the nuclear import of the HIV-1 preintegration complex. 
PMID:11883002	Carette JE, Kujawa A, Guhl K, Verver J, Wellink J, Van Kammen A	Virology. 290(1):21-9	2001	Mutational analysis of the genome-linked protein of cowpea mosaic virus. 	In this study we have performed a mutational analysis of the cowpea mosaic comovirus (CPMV) genome-linked protein VPg to discern the structural requirements necessary for proper functioning of VPg. Either changing the serine residue linking VPg to RNA at a tyrosine or a threonine or changing the position of the serine from the N-terminal end to position 2 or 3 abolished virus infectivity. Some of the mutations affected the cleavage between the VPg and the 58K ATP-binding protein in vitro, which might have contributed to the lethal phenotype. RNA replication of some of the mutants designed to replace VPg with the related cowpea severe mosaic comovirus was completely abolished, whereas replication of others was not affected or only mildly affected, showing that amino acids that are not conserved between the comoviruses can be critical for the function of VPg. The replicative proteins of one of the mutants failed to accumulate in typical cytopathic structures and this might reflect the involvement of VPg in protein-protein interactions with the other replicative proteins. 
PMID:12083827	Sasaya T, Ishikawa K, Koganezawa H	Virology. 297(2):289-97	2002	The nucleotide sequence of RNA1 of Lettuce big-vein virus, genus Varicosavirus, reveals its relation to nonsegmented negative-strand RNA viruses. 	The complete nucleotide sequence of RNA1 from Lettuce big-vein virus (LBVV), the type member of the genus Varicosavirus, was determined. LBVV RNA1 consists of 6797 nucleotides and contains one large ORF that encodes a large (L) protein of 2040 amino acids with a predicted M(r) of 232,092. Northern blot hybridization analysis indicated that the LBVV RNA1 is a negative-sense RNA. Database searches showed that the amino acid sequence of L protein is homologous to those of L polymerases of nonsegmented negative-strand RNA viruses. A cluster dendrogram derived from alignments of the LBVV L protein and the L polymerases indicated that the L protein is most closely related to the L polymerases of plant rhabdoviruses. Transcription termination/polyadenylation signal-like poly(U) tracts that resemble those in rhabdovirus and paramyxovirus RNAs were present upstream and downstream of the coding region. Although LBVV is related to rhabdoviruses, a key distinguishing feature is that the genome of LBVV is segmented. The results reemphasize the need to reconsider the taxonomic position of varicosaviruses. 
PMID:12350360	Senkevich TG, White CL, Weisberg A, Granek JA, Wolffe EJ, Koonin EV, Moss B	Virology. 300(2):296-303	2002	Expression of the vaccinia virus A2.5L redox protein is required for virion morphogenesis. 	In this article we report the initial biochemical, genetic, and electron microscopic analysis of a previously uncharacterized, 8.9-kDa, predicted thiol-redox protein. The name A2.5L was assigned to the corresponding vaccinia virus gene, which is conserved in all sequenced poxviruses. Multiple alignment analysis and secondary structure prediction indicated that the A2.5L gene product is an all-alpha-helical protein with a conserved Cxx(x)C motif in the N-terminal alpha-helix. The DNA replication requirement and kinetics of A2.5L protein accumulation in virus-infected cells were typical of a late gene product, in agreement with the predicted promoter sequence. The A2.5L protein was a monomer under reducing conditions, but was mostly associated with the vaccinia virus E10R redox protein as a heterodimer under nonreducing conditions. The A2.5L protein was detected in virus particles at various stages of assembly, suggesting that it is an integral component of intracellular virions. An inducer-dependent A2.5L null mutant was constructed: in the absence of inducer, infectious virus formation was abolished and electron microscopy revealed an assembly block with an accumulation of crescent membranes and immature virions. This stage of assembly block was similar to that occurring when the E10R and G4L redox proteins were repressed, which is compatible with the involvement of E10R, A2.5L, and G4L in the same redox pathway. 
PMID:12367747	Gould AR, Kattenbelt JA, Gumley SG, Lunt RA	Virus Res. 89(1):1-28	2002	Characterisation of an Australian bat lyssavirus variant isolated from an insectivorous bat. 	In 1996 a variant lyssavirus was isolated from an insectivorous bat (yellow bellied, sheath tail bat-Saccolaimus flaviventris) in Australia. The nucleocapsid protein (N), matrix protein (M), phosphoprotein (P), glycoprotein (G) and polymerase (L) genes of the Australian bat lyssavirus (ABL) insectivorous isolate were compared with that previously described from a frugivorous bat (Pteropus sp.), and showed sequence divergence at both the nucleotide and amino acid sequence level of 20% and 4-12%, respectively. Comparison of deduced protein sequences of ABL isolates from Pteropus and insectivorous bats, showed that viral isolates were homologous and varied by only a few percent. However, these viruses separated into two distinct clades; those isolated from Pteropus or those from Saccolaimus flaviventris bats, when comparisons were made at the nucleotide level. Nucleoprotein sequence comparisons also showed insectivorous isolates to be of the same putative genotype (genotype 7) as that isolated from frugivorous bats. Immediately after the isolation of ABL from an insectivorous bat, the first human case of ABL infection was identified. PCR and sequence analysis done on cerebrospinal fluid, brain and virus isolated from fresh brain tissue of this human case, was consistent with this infection originating from an insectivorous bat. Monoclonal antibody profiling studies of the virus isolated from the human brain tissues supported this conclusion. Sequence comparisons done on the nucleocapsid (N) gene of insectivorous or frugivorous bats showed no geographic associations between isolates but did delineate between the variants of ABL in Australia. 
PMID:12367749	Ruzindana-Umunyana A, Imbeault L, Weber JM	Virus Res. 89(1):41-52	2002	Substrate specificity of adenovirus protease. 	The adenovirus protease, adenain is functionally required for virion uncoating and virion maturation and release from the infected cell. In addition to hydrolysis of precursor proteins at specific consensus sites, adenain has also been observed to cleave viral proteins at other sites. Here we re-examine the sequences in the consensus sites and also the phenomena of cleavage at other sites on viral proteins II, 100K, V, VI and VII. An examination of the eight residues flanking the scissile bond in 274 consensus sites from 36 different adenovirus serotypes in the DNA sequence databanks provided the following main conclusions: (1) two types of consensus sites, type 1, (M,I,L)XGX-G and type 2, (M,I,L)XGG-X, (2) the variant positions P(3) and P(1) never contained C,P,D,H,W,Y and C,P,G,M amino acids, respectively in type 1, (3) the variant positions P(3) and P(1)' never contained C,D,L,W and C,P,D,Q,H,Y,W amino acids, respectively in type 2, and (4) the thiol forming C residue occurred only twice within the eight residues flanking the scissile bond and that in the P(4)' position. Six unusual serotypes had (M,L,I)XAT-G as the PVII consensus site. Adenain has been proposed to cleave protein VI at an unknown site in the course of virion uncoating. The cleavage of capsid protein VI in the absence of a consensus site is confirmed here in vitro using recombinant adenain. Virion proteins II, V and VII and the nonstructural protein 100K were also digested in vitro into discrete fragments by recombinant adenain. We conclude that adenain preferentially cleaves viral proteins at their consensus sites, but is capable, in vitro of cleavages at other discrete sites which resemble the consensus cleavage sites. 
PMID:12367753	Papanikolaou E, Kouvatsis V, Dimitriadis G, Inoue N, Arsenakis M	Virus Res. 89(1):89-101	2002	Identification and characterization of the gene products of open reading frame U86/87 of human herpesvirus 6. 	The human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) immediate early-A locus (IE-A) locates in the position analogous to the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) major IE (MIE) locus that is well-known to play critical roles in viral infection. Similarly to HCMV MIE, HHV-6 IE-A consists of two genetic units, IE1 and IE2, corresponding to open reading frames U90-U89 and U90-U86/87, respectively. However, the HHV-6 IE-A locus exhibits limited sequence homology with the HCMV MIE locus. In this study, to characterize HHV-6 IE2 gene products, polyclonal antibodies against four domains of the U86/87 open reading frame were generated by immunization of rabbits with bacterially-expressed proteins. Three polypeptides derived from the U86/87 region with apparent molecular masses of 100, 85 and 55 kD were detected in HHV-6-infected cells 3 days after infection, while IE1 polypeptides with apparent molecular mass greater than 170 kD were detectable as early as 8 h. Mapping of the IE2 gene products with the antibodies suggests differential splicing and alternative translation initiation in the IE2 genetic unit. The IE2 products show a mixed cytoplasmic and nuclear localization pattern. In addition, the 437 amino acid carboxyl-terminus domain bound to a DNA fragment containing the putative IE-A promoter. These results suggest that HHV-6 IE2 plays a critical role in transcriptional regulation and viral growth as does HCMV IE2, although it is likely that HHV-6 IE2 has expression kinetics different from HCMV IE2. 
PMID:12417955	Rustici G, Milne RG, Accotto GP	Arch Virol. 147(11):2215-24	2002	Nucleotide sequence, genome organisation and phylogenetic analysis of Indian citrus ringspot virus. Brief report. 	The sequence of the single-stranded RNA genome of Indian citrus ringspot virus (ICRSV) consists of 7560 nucleotides. It contains six open reading frames (ORFs) which encode putative proteins of 187.3, 25, 12, 6.4, 34 and 23 kDa respectively. ORF1 encodes a polypeptide that contains all the elements of a replicase; ORFs 2, 3 and 4 compose a triple-gene block; ORF5 encodes the capsid protein; the function of ORF6 is unknown. Phylogenetic analysis of the complete genome and each ORF separately, and database searches indicate that ICRSV, though showing some similarities to potexviruses, is significantly different, as in the presence of ORF6, the genome and CP sizes, and particle morphology. These differences favour its inclusion in a new virus genus. 
PMID:12487813	Hasegawa H, Tatsumi M, Ogawa-Goto K, Takahashi H, Kojima A, Iwasaki T, Kurata T, Sata T, Takeuchi T, Sheehy N, Sawa H, Nagashima K, Hall WW	AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 18(17):1253-60	2002	Processing of the HTLV-II envelope precursor glycoprotein gp63 by furin is essential for cell fusion activity. 	To investigate the relationship between the fusogenic properties of HTLV-II and the processing of the envelope precursor glycoprotein gp63, recombinant cowpox virus expressing this protein was used to infect a range of cell lines derived from different species. Syncytium formation and gp63 processing were observed in all cells with the exception of LoVo cells, which are known to have a dysfunctional form of the endoprotease, furin. Furin has been shown to be necessary for the processing of a number of viral envelope glycoproteins, and gp63 contains a consensus sequence (305)Arg-Arg-Arg-Arg, which is a furin substrate motif. Pulse-chase studies demonstrated gp63 processing in Vero but not in LoVo cells. In addition it could be shown that expression of recombinant furin restored the processing of gp63 to gp46 in LoVo cells, and this resulted in syncytium formation. Our findings suggest that furin plays a pivotal role in cleavage of the HTLV-II envelope gp63, which in turn is a prerequisite for the fusogenic properties of the virus. 
PMID:12606081	Snow M, Ritchie R, Arnaud O, Villoing S, Aspehaug V, Cunningham CO	Virus Res. 92(1):99-105	2003	Isolation and characterisation of segment 1 of the infectious salmon anaemia virus genome. 	The isolation and characterisation of the largest genomic segment of infectious salmon anaemia virus (ISAV) is reported. Following identification of ISAV-specific clones from a cDNA library, a rapid amplification of cDNA ends-PCR strategy was designed to obtain the sequence of the full length mRNA transcript. The full length open reading frame (ORF) of this gene was shown to be 2169 nucleotides in length, encoding a putative protein of 722 aa. This sequence was demonstrated by RT-PCR to be specific to ISAV-infected cell cultures. The start codon of this ORF was preceded by the ISAV consensus sequence 5' GCTAAGA 3' indicating the full 5' end of the gene to have been obtained. Based on protein size and amino acid composition, this protein was shown to be similar to the PB2 protein of other orthomyxoviruses. Furthermore, a bipartite nuclear localisation signal was identified in the C-terminus of the protein as is found on all of the influenza virus P proteins. Expression of the putative PB2 as a green fluorescent marker protein-fusion protein confirmed that this protein exhibited nuclear localisation in a fish cell line. Sequences of the ISAV segment 1 gene were obtained from Scottish, Norwegian and Canadian ISAV isolates. Analyses confirmed the close genetic relationship between Norwegian and Scottish ISAV and indicated that this segment was among the most conserved of the ISAV genes identified to date. Thus, this evidence strongly suggests that the genomic segment 1 of ISAV encodes a polymerase protein which is thought to be analagous in function to the PB2 protein of influenza viruses. 
PMID:12627491	Maresova L, Pasieka T, Wagenaar T, Jackson W, Grose C	J Med Virol. 70 Suppl 1:S64-70	2003	Identification of the authentic varicella-zoster virus gB (gene 31) initiating methionine overlapping the 3' end of gene 30. 	The varicella-zoster virus (VZV) gB sequence was re-examined in light of recent knowledge about unusually long gB signal peptides in other herpesviral gB homologs. Through mutational analysis, the discovery was made that the authentic initiating methionine for VZV gB is a codon beginning at genome nucleotide 56,819. The total length for the VZV gB primary translation product was 931 amino acids (aa) with a 71-aa signal sequence. Considering the likely signal sequence cleavage site to be located between Ser 71 and Val 72, the length of the mature VZV gB polypeptide would then be 860 amino acids prior to further internal endoproteolytic cleavage between amino acids Arg 494 and Ser 495. In this report, we also produced a full-length gB and demonstrated its association with VZV gE, suggesting a possible gE-gB interaction during gB trafficking before its cleavage in the Golgi. 
PMID:12663763|PMCID:152138	Miller CL, Broering TJ, Parker JS, Arnold MM, Nibert ML	J Virol. 77(8):4566-76	2003	Reovirus sigma NS protein localizes to inclusions through an association requiring the mu NS amino terminus. 	Cells infected with mammalian reoviruses contain phase-dense inclusions, called viral factories, in which viral replication and assembly are thought to occur. The major reovirus nonstructural protein mu NS forms morphologically similar phase-dense inclusions when expressed in the absence of other viral proteins, suggesting it is a primary determinant of factory formation. In this study we examined the localization of the other major reovirus nonstructural protein, sigma NS. Although sigma NS colocalized with mu NS in viral factories during infection, it was distributed diffusely throughout the cell when expressed in the absence of mu NS. When coexpressed with mu NS, sigma NS was redistributed and colocalized with mu NS inclusions, indicating that the two proteins associate in the absence of other viral proteins and suggesting that this association may mediate the localization of sigma NS to viral factories in infected cells. We have previously shown that mu NS residues 1 to 40 or 41 are both necessary and sufficient for mu NS association with the viral microtubule-associated protein mu 2. In the present study we found that this same region of micro NS is required for its association with sigma NS. We further dissected this region, identifying residues 1 to 13 of mu NS as necessary for association with sigma NS, but not with mu 2. Deletion of sigma NS residues 1 to 11, which we have previously shown to be required for RNA binding by that protein, resulted in diminished association of sigma NS with mu NS. Furthermore, when treated with RNase, a large portion of sigma NS was released from mu NS coimmunoprecipitates, suggesting that RNA contributes to their association. The results of this study provide further evidence that mu NS plays a key role in forming the reovirus factories and recruiting other components to them. 
PMID:12917464	Wei CZ, Osaki H, Iwanami T, Matsumoto N, Ohtsu Y	J Gen Virol. 84(Pt 9):2431-7	2003	Molecular characterization of dsRNA segments 2 and 5 and electron microscopy of a novel reovirus from a hypovirulent isolate, W370, of the plant pathogen Rosellinia necatrix. 	A hypovirulent isolate, W370, of the white root rot fungus Rosellinia necatrix has previously been shown to harbour 12 dsRNA segments. In this study, complete nucleotide sequences of segments 2 and 5 of W370 dsRNAs were determined. The nucleotide sequence of genome segment 2 was 3773 bases long with a single long open reading frame (ORF) encoding 1226 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of approximately 138.5 kDa. The nucleotide sequence of segment 5 was 2089 bases long with a single long ORF, whose deduced polypeptide contained 646 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of about 72 kDa. Comparative analysis showed that the deduced protein sequence of segment 2 had significant homology with the putative VP2 of Colorado tick fever virus (CTFV) and European Eyach virus (EYAV) in the genus Coltivirus, but the deduced protein sequence of segment 5 had no similarity with other virus proteins. Double-shelled spherical particles approximately 80 nm in diameter associated with W370 dsRNAs were observed in a preparation from the mycelial tissue of isolate W370. The results demonstrated that the virus associated with W370 dsRNAs is a novel reovirus of the family Reoviridae. The virus was named Rosellinia anti-rot virus (RArV). 
PMID:1321219	Xu J, Dallas PB, Lyons PA, Shellam GR, Scalzo AA	J Gen Virol. 73 ( Pt 7):1849-54	1992	Identification of the glycoprotein H gene of murine cytomegalovirus. 	Partial sequencing of the HindIII C fragment of murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) revealed an open reading frame of 2172 nucleotides in length encoding a 724 amino acid protein with a predicted Mr of 80.4K. Analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence revealed homology with glycoprotein H (gH) from a number of other herpesviruses. MCMV gH showed strongest amino acid identity with human (H) CMV and human herpesvirus 6 gH, and less identity with the gH protein sequences of Epstein-Barr virus, varicella-zoster virus and herpes simplex virus type 1. The greatest identity between MCMV and HCMV gH occurs in the C-terminal region. The MCMV gH is characterized by having a 14 amino acid signal sequence, a 23 amino acid transmembrane region, a seven amino acid positively charged cytoplasmic anchor sequence and eight putative N-linked glycosylation sites. Comparison of MCMV gH with that of HCMV indicates that there are 12 conserved cysteine residues and three conserved potential N-linked glycosylation sites. 
PMID:1326827	Binns MM, Boursnell ME, Skinner MA	Virus Res. 24(2):161-72	1992	Gene translocations in poxviruses: the fowlpox virus thymidine kinase gene is flanked by 15 bp direct repeats and occupies the locus which in vaccinia virus is occupied by the ribonucleotide reductase large subunit gene. 	By sequencing a fragment of 7351 bp the fowlpox virus thymidine kinase gene has been found to map to a position within the equivalent of the vaccinia HindIII I fragment. The deduced gene arrangement in fowlpox virus is I3, X, TK, I5, I6, I7, I8, G1, indicating that the homologue of the vaccinia I4 gene has been replaced by two genes X and TK. The non-essential TK gene has therefore replaced another non-essential gene, I4 (the ribonucleotide reductase large subunit) in this region. The X/TK insertion in fowlpox virus is precisely flanked by direct repeats of 15 bp suggesting that the translocation event may have involved transposition. The % identities between the fowlpox virus and vaccinia virus proteins ranged between 58.5% and 31.3%. 
PMID:1329373	Strayer DS, Jerng HH	Virus Res. 25(1-2):117-32	1992	Sequence and analysis of the BamHI "D" fragment of Shope fibroma virus: comparison with similar regions of related poxviruses. 	Differences observed in the virulence of two related leporipoxviruses are closely tied to a particular region of their genomes. For the virulent poxvirus of this pair, malignant rabbit fibroma virus (MV), this region is the BamHI "C" fragment, which is 10.7 kb. For the avirulent poxvirus, Shope fibroma virus, SFV, this region is the corresponding BamHI "D" fragment, which is 13.1 kb. As part of our attempt to understand the virulence of these two viruses, we sequenced these two DNA fragments. The sequence for the BamHI "C" fragment of MV is reported elsewhere (Strayer et al., 1991). We report here the sequence for SFV's BamHI "D" fragment and resultant open reading frames, and compare both DNA and open reading frame structures to those of MV and other known poxviruses. The BamHI "D" fragment of SFV contains 12 open reading frames of 100 amino acids or more, arranged similarly to orf's in MV and vaccinia. Striking similarities between SFV and MV are seen in certain parts of this restriction fragment, including substantial stretches of DNA in which the two viruses are identical. Clear homologies exist between these leporipox virus genomes and those of other related poxviruses. To understand the pathogenesis of virus infection, one must appreciate the structure of those viral genes that play important roles in infection. 
PMID:1448922	Scaria A, Tollefson AE, Saha SK, Wold WS	Virology. 191(2):743-53	1992	The E3-11.6K protein of adenovirus is an Asn-glycosylated integral membrane protein that localizes to the nuclear membrane. 	The 11,600 MW (101 amino acids; 11.6K) protein of adenovirus 2 (Ad2) is a protein of unknown function which is synthesized in low amounts during early stages of infection but in very high amounts at late stages. The 11.6K protein migrates as three major groupings of diffuse bands of ca. 14K, 21K, and 31K on SDS-PAGE, indicating that 11.6K undergoes post-translational modification. We show here that 11.6K is Asn-glycosylated with complex (endo H-resistant) oligosaccharides and that 11.6K is an integral membrane protein. Immunofluorescence indicated that 11.6K initially is associated with the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus and that it ultimately localizes to the nuclear membrane. The 11.6K protein is predicted to have a single signal-anchor sequence at residues 41-62 and only one potential Asn-linked glycosylation site at residue 14; thus, 11.6K must be oriented in the membranes with its NH2-terminus in the lumen and its COOH-terminus in the cytoplasm. The signal-anchor and glycosylation features of 11.6K are preserved in Ad2 and Ad5 (group C), and in Ad3 and Ad7 (group B), but the sequence of 11.6K is more diverged among these serotypes than is the sequence of most other adenovirus proteins. 
PMID:14573800	Rahaus M, Desloges N, Yang M, Ruyechan WT, Wolff MH	J Gen Virol. 84(Pt 11):2957-67	2003	Transcription factor USF, expressed during the entire phase of varicella-zoster virus infection, interacts physically with the major viral transactivator IE62 and plays a significant role in virus replication. 	The expression of the genes of varicella-zoster virus (VZV) is regulated by self-encoded viral as well as cellular transcription factors. A potential candidate with an ability to influence the transcription of VZV genes is USF (upstream stimulatory factor), which recognizes the consensus E-box motif. Quantitative RT-PCR and immunoblot assays indicate stable expression of both USF1 and USF2 throughout infection. It was also found that USF binds to a variety of E-boxes (consensus and closely related motifs) within the promoters of ORF 8/9 (two elements), ORF 22 and ORF 67. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments and His-tag protein affinity pull-down assays indicate that a direct physical interaction occurs between USF and the major virus transactivator IE62. To study the general effects of USF in the replication of VZV, a cell line expressing a dominant-negative form of USF (A-USF), which inhibits binding of USF to its recognition sites, was created. A significant decrease in virus replication was detected when this cell line was infected with cell-free virus, indicating that USF is an important cellular factor that regulates the transcription of VZV genes. 
PMID:14645919	Kato K, Yokoyama A, Tohya Y, Akashi H, Nishiyama Y, Kawaguchi Y	J Gen Virol. 84(Pt 12):3381-92	2003	Identification of protein kinases responsible for phosphorylation of Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen leader protein at serine-35, which regulates its coactivator function. 	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen leader protein (EBNA-LP) is a phosphoprotein suggested to play important roles in EBV-induced immortalization. Earlier studies have shown that the major site of phosphorylation of EBNA-LP by cellular kinase(s) is a serine residue at position 35 (Ser-35) and that the phosphorylation of Ser-35 is critical for regulation of the coactivator function of EBNA-LP (Yokoyama et al., J Virol 75, 5119-5128, 2001). In the present study, we have attempted to identify protein kinase(s) responsible for the phosphorylation of EBNA-LP at Ser-35. A purified chimeric protein consisting of glutathione S-transferase (GST) fused to a domain of EBNA-LP containing Ser-35 was found to be specifically phosphorylated by purified cdc2 in vitro, while GST fused to a mutated domain of EBNA-LP in which Ser-35 was replaced with alanine was not. In addition, overexpression of cdc2 in mammalian cells caused a significant increase in the phosphorylation of EBNA-LP, while this increased phosphorylation was eliminated if Ser-35 of EBNA-LP was replaced with alanine. These results indicate that the cellular protein kinase cdc2 mediates the phosphorylation of EBNA-LP at Ser-35. Recently, we reported that cdc2 and conserved protein kinases encoded by herpesviruses phosphorylate the same amino acid residue of target proteins (Kawaguchi et al., J Virol 77, 2359-2368, 2003). Consistent with this, the EBV-encoded conserved protein kinase BGLF4 specifically mediated the phosphorylation of EBNA-LP at Ser-35. These results indicate that the coactivator function of EBNA-LP can be regulated by the activity of these cellular and viral protein kinases. 
PMID:14745593	Siboo IR, Sieder F, Kumar K, Howe MM, DuBow MS	Arch Virol. 149(2):241-59	2004	Characterization of Plys-proximal morphogenetic genes of transposable bacteriophage Mu. 	Late during the bacteriophage Mu lytic cycle, Mu DNA must be matured and packaged from its dispersed integration sites in the host DNA in order to produce progeny virions. Whereas control of late gene transcription in Mu is becoming well understood, less is known about the phage morphogenetic process. To investigate the latter, we cloned and sequenced a approximately 4.3-kb region of the phage DNA beginning just upstream of the leftmost late promoter Plys. Previous mapping of amber mutations had located the lysis (lys) and proposed DNA maturation genes D and E in this region. When the DNA sequence was analyzed, seven potential open reading frames were found. DNA sequence analysis of amber mutations in genes D and E identified the sixth and seventh open reading frames as D and E, respectively. Cloning and expression of this region enabled production of cell-free protein extracts that specifically recognize the phage-encoded packaging sequence (pac), a characteristic exhibited by phage maturation enzymes. In addition, the E protein was found to share homology with the large subunit of many phage DNA maturation enzymes. These results support the hypothesis that D and E encode subunits of the Mu DNA maturation enzyme. 
PMID:14963131|PMCID:369248	Senkevich TG, Ward BM, Moss B	J Virol. 78(5):2348-56	2004	Vaccinia virus A28L gene encodes an essential protein component of the virion membrane with intramolecular disulfide bonds formed by the viral cytoplasmic redox pathway. 	We report the initial characterization of the product of the vaccinia virus A28L gene, which is highly conserved in all sequenced poxviruses. Our studies showed that the A28 protein is expressed at late times during the virus replication cycle and is a membrane component of the intracellular mature virion. An N-terminal hydrophobic sequence, present in all poxvirus A28 orthologs, anchors the protein in the virion surface membrane so that most of it is exposed to the cytoplasm. The cytoplasmic domain contains four conserved cysteines, which form two intramolecular disulfide bonds. Disulfide bond formation depended on the expression of three viral proteins, E10, A2.5, and G4, which together comprise a conserved cytoplasmic redox pathway. A28 is the third identified substrate of this pathway; the others are the L1 and F9 proteins. We constructed a conditional-lethal recombinant vaccinia virus with an inducible A28L gene. The recombinant virus was propagated in the presence of inducer but was unable to replicate and spread in its absence. During a single round of an abortive infection in the absence of inducer, the synthesis and processing of viral proteins, assembly of intra- and extracellular virions, and formation of actin tails occurred normally. In another paper (T. Senkevich, B. M. Ward, and B. Moss, J. Virol. 78:2357-2366, 2004), we have demonstrated that virions assembled without A28 cannot carry out a second round of infection because they are defective in cell penetration. 
PMID:14993647	Eichwald C, Rodriguez JF, Burrone OR	J Gen Virol. 85(Pt 3):625-34	2004	Characterization of rotavirus NSP2/NSP5 interactions and the dynamics of viroplasm formation. 	Viroplasms are discrete structures formed in the cytoplasm of rotavirus-infected cells and constitute the replication machinery of the virus. The non-structural proteins NSP2 and NSP5 localize in viroplasms together with other viral proteins, including the polymerase VP1, VP3 and the main inner-core protein, VP2. NSP2 and NSP5 interact with each other, activating NSP5 hyperphosphorylation and the formation of viroplasm-like structures (VLSs). We have used NSP2 and NSP5 fused to the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) to investigate the localization of both proteins within viroplasms in virus-infected cells, as well as the dynamics of viroplasm formation. The number of viroplasms was shown first to increase and then to decrease with time post-infection, while the area of each one increased, suggesting the occurrence of fusions. The interaction between NSP2 and a series of NSP5 mutants was investigated using two different assays, a yeast two-hybrid system and an in vivo binding/immunoprecipitation assay. Both methods gave comparable results, indicating that the N-terminal region (33 aa) as well as the C-terminal part (aa 131-198) of NSP5 are required for binding to NSP2. When fused to the N and C terminus of EGFP, respectively, these two regions were able to confer the ability to localize in the viroplasm and to form VLSs with NSP2. 
PMID:15045563	Wei CZ, Osaki H, Iwanami T, Matsumoto N, Ohtsu Y	Arch Virol. 149(4):773-7	2004	Complete nucleotide sequences of genome segments 1 and 3 of Rosellinia anti-rot virus in the family Reoviridae. 	The nucleotide sequences of genome segments 1 and 3 of Rosellinia anti-rot virus (RArV) from a hypovirulent isolate, W370, of the plant pathogen Rosellinia necatrix were determined. The complete nucleotide sequence of the genome segment 1 encoded a putative RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDRP). The deduced amino acid sequence of RDRP of RArV showed 29% identity with RDRPs of Colorado tick fever virus (CTFV) and European Eyach virus (EYAV) in the genus Coltivirus, and identities of 23-21% with members of the genera Fijivirus and Cypovirus. Both RArV and the Coltivirus member might have originated from a common virus ancestor. 
PMID:15163504	de Wit E, Spronken MI, Bestebroer TM, Rimmelzwaan GF, Osterhaus AD, Fouchier RA	Virus Res. 103(1-2):155-61	2004	Efficient generation and growth of influenza virus A/PR/8/34 from eight cDNA fragments. 	A reverse genetics system for the generation of influenza virus A/PR/8/34 (NIBSC vaccine strain) from plasmid DNA was developed. Upon transfection of eight bidirectional transcription plasmids encoding the gene segments of A/PR/8/34 into 293T cells, virus titers in the supernatant were about 10(4) TCID50/ml. The production of A/PR/8/34 in 293T cells was compared to that of A/WSN/33, for which virus titers in the supernatant were 10(7)-10(8) TCID50/ml. Time-course analysis of virus production indicated that the differences in virus titers were due to reinfection of 293T cells by A/WSN/33 but not A/PR/8/34. Indeed, virus titers of A/PR/8/34 comparable to those of A/WSN/33 were achieved upon addition of trypsin to the culture medium of transfected cells. The production of chimeric viruses revealed that the difference in virus titers between A/PR/8/34 and A/WSN/33 are determined primarily by differences in the surface glycoproteins hemagglutinin and neuraminidase and the polymerase protein PB1. In conclusion, high-titer virus stocks of recombinant influenza A/PR/8/34 virus can be produced as well as virus stocks with much lower titers, but without the requirement of virus amplification through replication. 
PMID:15163747|PMCID:416538	Kassis R, Larrous F, Estaquier J, Bourhy H	J Virol. 78(12):6543-55	2004	Lyssavirus matrix protein induces apoptosis by a TRAIL-dependent mechanism involving caspase-8 activation. 	Lyssaviruses, which are members of the Rhabdoviridae family, induce apoptosis, which plays an important role in the neuropathogenesis of rabies. However, the mechanisms by which these viruses mediate neuronal apoptosis have not been elucidated. Here we demonstrate that the early induction of apoptosis in a model of lyssavirus-infected neuroblastoma cells involves a TRAIL-dependent pathway requiring the activation of caspase-8 but not of caspase-9 or caspase-10. The activation of caspase-8 results in the activation of caspase-3 and caspase-6, as shown by an increase in the cleavage of the specific caspase substrate in lyssavirus-infected cells. However, neither caspase-1 nor caspase-2 activity was detected during the early phase of infection. Lyssavirus-mediated cell death involves an interaction between TRAIL receptors and TRAIL, as demonstrated by experiments using neutralizing antibodies and soluble decoy TRAIL-R1/R2 receptors. We also demonstrated that the decapsidation and replication of lyssavirus are essential for inducing apoptosis, as supported by UV inactivation, cycloheximide treatment, and the use of bafilomycin A1 to inhibit endosomal acidification. Transfection of cells with the matrix protein induced apoptosis using pathways similar to those described in the context of viral infection. Furthermore, our data suggest that the matrix protein of lyssaviruses plays a major role in the early induction of TRAIL-mediated apoptosis by the release of a soluble, active form of TRAIL. In our model, Fas ligand (CD95L) appears to play a limited role in lyssavirus-mediated neuroblastoma cell death. Similarly, tumor necrosis factor alpha does not appear to play an important role. 
PMID:15449144	Martin S, Lopez C, Garcia ML, Naum-Ongania G, Grau O, Flores R, Moreno P, Guerri J	Arch Virol. 150(1):167-76	2005	The complete nucleotide sequence of a Spanish isolate of Citrus psorosis virus: comparative analysis with other ophioviruses. 	The complete genomic sequence (11278 nt) of Citrus psorosis virus (CPsV), isolate P-121 from Spain, was determined and compared with those from isolate CPV-4 and from other ophioviruses. The three RNAs of P-121 had similar size and identical organization as those of CPV-4. The 24K and the RdRp proteins were potentially encoded in the viral complementary (vc) strand of RNA 1, the 54K protein potentially encoded in vcRNA 2 and the coat protein encoded in vcRNA 3. These four proteins from P-121 and CPV-4 had 87, 92, 93 and 94% amino acid identity, respectively, but only 22, 38, 25 and 33% identity with their homologous proteins from Mirafiori lettuce big vein virus (MLBVV), the only other ophiovirus completely sequenced. Biological and genetic differences between CPsV and MLBVV (and the other ophioviruses), would support their future allocation in different genera within a tentative family Ophioviridae. 
PMID:15464838	Hartman AL, Towner JS, Nichol ST	Virology. 328(2):177-84	2004	A C-terminal basic amino acid motif of Zaire ebolavirus VP35 is essential for type I interferon antagonism and displays high identity with the RNA-binding domain of another interferon antagonist, the NS1 protein of influenza A virus. 	The ebolavirus VP35 protein antagonizes the cellular type I interferon response by blocking phosphorylation of IRF-3, a transcription factor that turns on the expression of a large number of antiviral genes. To identify the domain of VP35 responsible for interferon antagonism, we generated mutations within the VP35 gene and found that a C-terminal basic amino acid motif is required for inhibition of ISG56 reporter gene expression as well as IFN-beta production. Remarkably, this basic amino acid motif displayed high sequence identity with part of the N-terminal RNA-binding domain of another interferon-antagonist, the NS1 protein of influenza A virus. 
PMID:15503203	Thompson JR, Perry KL, De Jong W	Arch Virol. 149(11):2141-54	2004	A new potato virus in a new lineage of picorna-like viruses. 	On constructing a cDNA library for potato, 'contaminating' sequences with a significant identity to Apple latent spherical virus (ALSV) were found. Determination of the remaining genome sequence indicated the presence of a bipartite virus with an RNA1 and 2 of 7034 and 3315 nucleotides, respectively, excluding a poly(A)tail. RNA1 encodes a single polyprotein (233 kDa) and shares highest amino acid identity with ALSV at 65%. Conserved amino acid motifs typical for helicase, protease and RNA-dependent polymerase (RdRp) functions are present. RNA2 encodes a single polyprotein (106 kDa) with amino acid identities to the flat apple isolate of Cherry rasp leaf virus (CRLV-FA) (97%) and ALSV (70%), suggesting this is a potato strain of CRLV (CRLV-pot). Phylogenetic analysis using the RdRp region shows that this virus falls within a group separate from the Comoviridae that includes members of the Sequiviridae and the taxonomically unassigned viruses ALSV, Strawberry mottle virus, Satsuma dwarf virus and Navel orange infectious mottling virus. Other regions of the genome have highest identities with both plant and animal infecting members of the picorna-like virus superfamily. The evolutionary context of CRLV-pot and related viruses is discussed. Similar viral sequences from an EST library of peppermint are also analysed. 
PMID:15503213	Boccardo G, Candresse T	Arch Virol. 150(2):403-5	2005	Complete sequence of the RNA2 of an isolate of White clover cryptic virus 1, type species of the genus Alphacryptovirus. 	 
PMID:15518812	Dellis S, Strickland KC, McCrary WJ, Patel A, Stocum E, Wright CF	Virology. 329(2):328-36	2004	Protein interactions among the vaccinia virus late transcription factors. 	The viral proteins A1L, A2L, G8R, and H5R positively modulate vaccinia virus late gene expression. Host-encoded proteins hnRNP A2 and RBM3 may also interact with these viral factors to influence late gene expression. In these studies, a yeast two-hybrid screen and in vitro pulldown and crosslinking experiments were used to investigate protein--protein interactions among these factors. These studies confirmed a previous observation that G8R interacts with itself and A1L. However, self-interactions of A1L and H5R, and interactions between A2L and G8R, A2L and H5R, and H5R and G8R were also observed. In addition, the proteins hnRNP A2 and RBM3 both showed some interaction with A2L. Illustration of these interactions is a step toward understanding the architecture of the late gene transcription complex as it occurs in poxviruses. 
PMID:15522443	Yang H, Makeyev EV, Kang Z, Ji S, Bamford DH, van Dijk AA	Virus Res. 106(1):15-26	2004	Cloning and sequence analysis of dsRNA segments 5, 6 and 7 of a novel non-group A, B, C adult rotavirus that caused an outbreak of gastroenteritis in China. 	A diarrhoeal outbreak among adults in China was caused by a new rotavirus, termed ADRV-N, that does not react with antisera directed against group A, B or C rotaviruses [Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi (Chin. Epidemiol.) 19 (1998) 336]. ADRV-N can be propagated in cell cultures [Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi (Natl. Med. J. China) 82 (2002) 14]. We present the complete sequences for ADRV-N genome segments 5 and 6, and a full ORF sequence of genome segment 7. The deduced amino acid sequences suggest that these segments encode NSP1, VP6 and NSP3, respectively. These three ADRV-N genome segments have a unique -ACCCC-3' terminal sequence. The 5'-GG- terminus of segments 5 and 6 is the same as that of other rotaviruses. The amino acid similarity between VP6 and NSP3 of ADRV-N and the cognate sequences of their closest counterpart, group B IDIR, was 37 and 35%, respectively. The ADRV-N NSP1 has a double-stranded RNA binding motif (DSRM) and a putative autoproteolytic cleavage motif upstream from the DSRM. The putative ADRV-N NSP3 has a truncated C-terminus compared to the cognate protein of group B rotaviruses. All the available data demonstrate that ADRV-N differs significantly from the known rotaviruses and strongly suggest that ADRV-N is the first recognized member of a new group of rotaviruses infecting humans. 
PMID:15567029	Gharakhanian E, Mana W, Norng M	Virus Res. 107(1):21-5	2005	Cys254 and Cys49/Cys87of simian virus 40 Vp1 are essential in formation of infectious virions. 	The SV40 capsid is composed of pentameric capsomeres of Vp1. We have previously shown that disulfide linkages at Vp1 Cys9, Cys104, and Cys207 are essential in formation of infectious virions. Here, the role of the remaining four cysteines was explored. Single, double, and quadruple cys --&gt; ser mutant genomes at Vp1 Cys49, Cys87, Cys254, and Cys267 codons were generated and transfected into CV-1 cells. The quadruple mutant Vp1 continued to localize to the nucleus and to bind DNA, but resulted in no plaques. SV40Vp1.Cys254 was the only single mutant with complete defect in plaque formation. The double mutant at Vp1.Cys49.Cys87 showed complete defect in plaque formation, while single mutants at the two residues resulted in plaques, suggesting a cumulative effect. All mutants defective in plaque formation continued to localize viral proteins in the nucleus. Taken together, our results suggest that Cys254 and the Cys49/Cys87 combination are essential in late stages of infectious virion formation. 
PMID:15567494	Nayak DP, Hui EK, Barman S	Virus Res. 106(2):147-65	2004	Assembly and budding of influenza virus. 	Influenza viruses are causative agents of an acute febrile respiratory disease called influenza (commonly known as "flu") and belong to the Orthomyxoviridae family. These viruses possess segmented, negative stranded RNA genomes (vRNA) and are enveloped, usually spherical and bud from the plasma membrane (more specifically, the apical plasma membrane of polarized epithelial cells). Complete virus particles, therefore, are not found inside infected cells. Virus particles consist of three major subviral components, namely the viral envelope, matrix protein (M1), and core (viral ribonucleocapsid [vRNP]). The viral envelope surrounding the vRNP consists of a lipid bilayer containing spikes composed of viral glycoproteins (HA, NA, and M2) on the outer side and M1 on the inner side. Viral lipids, derived from the host plasma membrane, are selectively enriched in cholesterol and glycosphingolipids. M1 forms the bridge between the viral envelope and the core. The viral core consists of helical vRNP containing vRNA (minus strand) and NP along with minor amounts of NEP and polymerase complex (PA, PB1, and PB2). For viral morphogenesis to occur, all three viral components, namely the viral envelope (containing lipids and transmembrane proteins), M1, and the vRNP must be brought to the assembly site, i.e. the apical plasma membrane in polarized epithelial cells. Finally, buds must be formed at the assembly site and virus particles released with the closure of buds. Transmembrane viral proteins are transported to the assembly site on the plasma membrane via the exocytic pathway. Both HA and NA possess apical sorting signals and use lipid rafts for cell surface transport and apical sorting. These lipid rafts are enriched in cholesterol, glycosphingolipids and are relatively resistant to neutral detergent extraction at low temperature. M1 is synthesized on free cytosolic polyribosomes. vRNPs are made inside the host nucleus and are exported into the cytoplasm through the nuclear pore with the help of M1 and NEP. How M1 and vRNPs are directed to the assembly site on the plasma membrane remains unclear. The likely possibilities are that they use a piggy-back mechanism on viral glycoproteins or cytoskeletal elements. Alternatively, they may possess apical determinants or diffuse to the assembly site, or a combination of these pathways. Interactions of M1 with M1, M1 with vRNP, and M1 with HA and NA facilitate concentration of viral components and exclusion of host proteins from the budding site. M1 interacts with the cytoplasmic tail (CT) and transmembrane domain (TMD) of glycoproteins, and thereby functions as a bridge between the viral envelope and vRNP. Lipid rafts function as microdomains for concentrating viral glycoproteins and may serve as a platform for virus budding. Virus bud formation requires membrane bending at the budding site. A combination of factors including concentration of and interaction among viral components, increased viscosity and asymmetry of the lipid bilayer of the lipid raft as well as pulling and pushing forces of viral and host components are likely to cause outward curvature of the plasma membrane at the assembly site leading to bud formation. Eventually, virus release requires completion of the bud due to fusion of the apposing membranes, leading to the closure of the bud, separation of the virus particle from the host plasma membrane and release of the virus particle into the extracellular environment. Among the viral components, M1 contains an L domain motif and plays a critical role in budding. Bud completion requires not only viral components but also host components. However, how host components facilitate bud completion remains unclear. In addition to bud completion, influenza virus requires NA to release virus particles from sialic acid residues on the cell surface and spread from cell to cell. Elucidation of both viral and host factors involved in viral morphogenesis and budding may lead to the development of drugs interfering with the steps of viral morphogenesis and in disease progression. 
PMID:15645375	Sasaya T, Ishikawa K, Kuwata S, Koganezawa H	Arch Virol. 150(5):1013-21	2005	Molecular analysis of coat protein coding region of tobacco stunt virus shows that it is a strain of Lettuce big-vein virus in the genus Varicosavirus. 	To evaluate the relationship between tobacco stunt virus (TStV) and Lettuce big-vein virus (LBVV), we determined nucleotide sequences of the coat protein (CP) coding region of five TStV and three LBVV isolates and compared them with those of one Japanese and four Spanish isolates of LBVV. CP coding regions were identical in size and the nucleotide and amino acid sequence identities between TStV and LBVV were 95.6-96.5% and 97.2-98.7%, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis of nucleotide sequences indicated that TStV was very closely related to LBVV and a strain of LBVV rather than a distinct species. 
PMID:1566600	Zou S, Brown EG	Virus Res. 22(2):159-64	1992	Nucleotide sequence comparison of the M1 genome segment of reovirus type 1 Lang and type 3 Dearing. 	The mammalian reoviruses possess a genome composed of 10 double stranded RNA segments. The serotype 1 strain Lang M1 segment was sequenced and compared to the published type 3 sequence. Both segments were 2304 base-pairs long coding for the mu 2 protein predicted to be 736 amino acids long. The sequences were highly conserved with 97.2% conservation of nucleotide sequence and 98.6% conservation of amino acid sequence. The M1 segments of serotypes 1 and 3 have recently diverged as indicated by the distribution of variation with respect to codon positions. The conservation of amino acid sequence indicated that the mu 2 protein has a relatively high functional density. 
PMID:15680420	Cairns TM, Landsburg DJ, Whitbeck JC, Eisenberg RJ, Cohen GH	Virology. 332(2):550-62	2005	Contribution of cysteine residues to the structure and function of herpes simplex virus gH/gL. 	In HSV types 1 and 2, gH forms a noncovalent heterodimer with gL. Previous studies demonstrated that the first 323 amino acids of gH1 and the first 161 amino acids of gL1 are sufficient for gH/gL binding. For gL1, substitution of any of its four cysteine (C) residues (all located within the gH/gL binding region) destroyed gH binding and function. Although gH1 contains 8 cysteines in its ectodomain, gH 2 contains 7 (C3 of gH1 is replaced by arginine in gH2). We found that mutation of any of the four C-terminal cysteines led to a reduction or loss of gH/gL function. Mutation of C5 or C6 in gH1 or gH2 rendered the proteins non-functional. However, substitution of C7 and/or C8 in gH1 has a definite negative impact on cell-cell fusion, although these mutations had less effect on complementation. Remarkably, all four gH1 N-terminal cysteines could be mutated simultaneously with little effect on fusion or complementation. As gH2 already lacks C3, we constructed a triple mutant (gH2-C1/2/4) which exhibited a similar phenotype. Since gH1 is known to bind gL2 and vice versa, we wondered whether binding of gH2 to the heterologous gL1 would enhance the fusion defect seen with the gH2-C2 mutant. The combination of mutant gH2-C2 with wild-type gL1 was nonfunctional in a cell-cell fusion assay. Interestingly, the reciprocal was not true, as gH1-C2 could utilize both gL1 and gL2. These findings suggest that there is a structural difference in the gH2 N-terminus as compared to gH1. We also present genetic evidence for at least one disulfide bond within gH2, between cysteines 2 and 4. 
PMID:15707490|PMCID:549080	Ogata H, Raoult D, Claverie JM	Virol J. 2:8	2005	A new example of viral intein in Mimivirus. 	Inteins are "protein introns" that remove themselves from their host proteins through an autocatalytic protein-splicing. After their discovery, inteins have been quickly identified in all domains of life, but only once to date in the genome of a eukaryote-infecting virus. Here we report the identification and bioinformatics characterization of an intein in the DNA polymerase PolB gene of amoeba infecting Mimivirus, the largest known double-stranded DNA virus, the origin of which has been proposed to predate the emergence of eukaryotes. Mimivirus intein exhibits canonical sequence motifs and clearly belongs to a subclass of archaeal inteins always found in the same location of PolB genes. On the other hand, the Mimivirus PolB is most similar to eukaryotic Poldelta sequences. The intriguing association of an extremophilic archaeal-type intein with a mesophilic eukaryotic-like PolB in Mimivirus is consistent with the hypothesis that DNA viruses might have been the central reservoir of inteins throughout the course of evolution. 
PMID:15725757	Hartley O, Klasse PJ, Sattentau QJ, Moore JP	AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 21(2):171-89	2005	V3: HIV's switch-hitter. 	The third variable region, V3, of the gp120 surface envelope glycoprotein is an approximately 35-residue-long, frequently glycosylated, highly variable, disulfide-bonded structure that has a major influence on HIV-1 tropism. Thus the sequence of V3, directly or indirectly, can determine which coreceptor (CCR5 or CXCR4) is used to trigger the fusion potential of the Env complex, and hence which cells the virus can infect. V3 also influences HIV-1's sensitivity to, and ability to escape from, entry inhibitors that are being developed as antiviral drugs. For some strains, V3 is a prominent target for HIV-1 neutralizing antibodies (NAbs); indeed, for many years it was considered to be the "principal neutralization determinant" (PND). Some efforts to use V3 as a vaccine target continue to this day, despite disappointing progress over more than a decade. Recent findings on the structure, function, antigenicity, and immunogenicity of V3 cast new doubts on the value of this vaccine approach. Here, we review recent advances in the understanding of V3 as a determinant of viral tropism, and discuss how this new knowledge may inform the development of HIV-1 drugs and vaccines. 
PMID:15740624|PMCID:555535	Te J, Melcher U, Howard A, Verchot-Lubicz J	Virol J. 2:18	2005	Soilborne wheat mosaic virus (SBWMV) 19K protein belongs to a class of cysteine rich proteins that suppress RNA silencing. 	Amino acid sequence analyses indicate that the Soilborne wheat mosaic virus (SBWMV) 19K protein is a cysteine-rich protein (CRP) and shares sequence homology with CRPs derived from furo-, hordei-, peclu- and tobraviruses. Since the hordei- and pecluvirus CRPs were shown to be pathogenesis factors and/or suppressors of RNA silencing, experiments were conducted to determine if the SBWMV 19K CRP has similar activities. The SBWMV 19K CRP was introduced into the Potato virus X (PVX) viral vector and inoculated to tobacco plants. The SBWMV 19K CRP aggravated PVX-induced symptoms and restored green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression to GFP silenced tissues. These observations indicate that the SBWMV 19K CRP is a pathogenicity determinant and a suppressor of RNA silencing. 
PMID:15763150	Yuan X, Li J, Shan Y, Yang Z, Zhao Z, Chen B, Yao Z, Dong B, Wang S, Chen J, Cong Y	Virus Res. 109(2):191-202	2005	Subcellular localization and membrane association of SARS-CoV 3a protein. 	SARS-CoV 3a protein was a unique protein of SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV), which was identified in SARS-CoV infected cells and SARS patients' specimen. Recent studies revealed that 3a could interact specifically with many SARS-CoV structural proteins, such as M, E and S protein. Expressed 3a protein was reported to localize to Golgi complex in SARS-CoV infected cells. In this study, it was shown that 3a protein was mainly located in Golgi apparatus with different tags at N- or C-terminus. The localization pattern was similar in different transfected cells. With the assay of truncated 3a protein, it was shown that 3a might contain three transmembrane regions, and the second or third region was properly responsible for Golgi localization. By ultra-centrifugation experiment with different extraction buffers, it was confirmed that 3a was an integral membrane protein and embedded in the phospholipid bilayer. Immunofluorescence assay indicated that 3a was co-localized with M protein in Golgi complex in co-transfected cells. These results provide a new insight for further study of the 3a protein on the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV. 
PMID:15778977	Seto E, Yang L, Middeldorp J, Sheen TS, Chen JY, Fukayama M, Eizuru Y, Ooka T, Takada K	J Med Virol. 76(1):82-8	2005	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded BARF1 gene is expressed in nasopharyngeal carcinoma and EBV-associated gastric carcinoma tissues in the absence of lytic gene expression. 	The BARF1 gene is located in the BamHI-A fragment of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome, encodes 221 amino acids, and has activity as an oncogene. Several reports have demonstrated that BARF1 is expressed in the tissues of various EBV-associated epithelioid malignancies. However,BARF1 is thought to be a lytic gene, since its expression is induced upon induction of the lytic cycle in Burkitt's lymphoma cell lines. Therefore, the possibility cannot be excluded that BARF1 expression in EBV-associated epithelioid malignancies reflects spontaneous induction of the lytic cycle in carcinoma cells. The present study aimed to clarify whether BARF1 was expressed as a latent gene or a lytic gene in epithelioid malignancies. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR assay revealed that BARF1 was highly expressed in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) and EBV-positive gastric carcinoma tissues in the absence of expression of lytic genes. On the other hand, BARF1 protein was detectable only in two of seven NPC tissue samples by immunoblot analysis. Analysis of BARF1-transfected CNE1 cells revealed that BARF1 was quickly secreted into culture medium and was hardly detectable in the cell lysate, which would account for why some NPC tissues were negative for BARF1 protein expression even though they were strongly positive forBARF1 expression at the transcriptional level. The present findings indicate that BARF1 is expressed in NPC and EBV-positive gastric carcinoma tissues as a latent gene and suggest that BARF1 plays a role in the pathogenesis of these malignancies. 
PMID:15824884	Callaghan B, Dietzgen RG	Arch Virol. 150(8):1661-7	2005	Nucleocapsid gene variability reveals two subgroups of Lettuce necrotic yellows virus. 	The complete nucleocapsid (N) genes of eight Australian isolates of Lettuce necrotic yellows virus (LNYV) were amplified by reverse transcription PCR, cloned and sequenced. Phylogenetic analyses of these sequences revealed two distinct subgroups of LNYV isolates. Nucleotide sequences within each subgroup were more than 96% identical but heterogeneity between groups was about 20% at the nucleotide sequence level. However, less than 4% heterogeneity was noted at the amino acid level, indicating mostly third nucleotide position changes and a strong conservation for N protein function. There was no obvious geographical or temporal separation of the subgroups in Australia. 
PMID:15831103|PMCID:1087892	Marmey P, Rojas-Mendoza A, de Kochko A, Beachy RN, Fauquet CM	Virol J. 2:33	2005	Characterization of the protease domain of Rice tungro bacilliform virus responsible for the processing of the capsid protein from the polyprotein. 	Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) is a pararetrovirus, and a member of the family Caulimoviridae in the genus Badnavirus. RTBV has a long open reading frame that encodes a large polyprotein (P3). Pararetroviruses show similarities with retroviruses in molecular organization and replication. P3 contains a putative movement protein (MP), the capsid protein (CP), the aspartate protease (PR) and the reverse transcriptase (RT) with a ribonuclease H activity. PR is a member of the cluster of retroviral proteases and serves to proteolytically process P3. Previous work established the N- and C-terminal amino acid sequences of CP and RT, processing of RT by PR, and estimated the molecular mass of PR by western blot assays. A molecular mass of a protein that was associated with virions was determined by in-line HPLC electrospray ionization mass spectral analysis. Comparison with retroviral proteases amino acid sequences allowed the characterization of a putative protease domain in this protein. Structural modelling revealed strong resemblance with retroviral proteases, with overall folds surrounding the active site being well conserved. Expression in E. coli of putative domain was affected by the presence or absence of the active site in the construct. Analysis of processing of CP by PR, using pulse chase labelling experiments, demonstrated that the 37 kDa capsid protein was dependent on the presence of the protease in the constructs. The findings suggest the characterization of the RTBV protease domain. Sequence analysis, structural modelling, in vitro expression studies are evidence to consider the putative domain as being the protease domain. Analysis of expression of different peptides corresponding to various domains of P3 suggests a processing of CP by PR. This work clarifies the organization of the RTBV polyprotein, and its processing by the RTBV protease. 
PMID:15847933	Wakuda M, Pongsuwanna Y, Taniguchi K	J Virol Methods. 126(1-2):165-9	2005	Complete nucleotide sequences of two RNA segments of human picobirnavirus. 	Picobirnaviruses are unclassified, non-enveloped, spherical, small viruses with a genome comprising two double-stranded RNA segments. Only incomplete sequence data on picobirnaviruses are available so far. By cloning involving single primer amplification, full-length cDNAs were prepared corresponding to RNA segments 1 and 2 of a picobirnavirus (strain Hy005102) isolated from a stool specimen from an infant with acute non-bacterial gastroenteritis in Thailand, and the complete nucleotide sequences were determined. RNA segments 1 and 2 are 2,525 and 1,745 base pairs in length, respectively. RNA segment 1 encodes two open reading frames (ORFs) of 224 and 552 amino acids, and RNA segment 2 codes for a single ORF of 534 amino acids. On comparison with a part of the nucleotide sequences of the RNA segment, 2 of the other published picobirnavirus strains, the Thai strain was found to be related most closely to one of the US strains. 
PMID:1588328	Zhu Y, Hayakawa T, Toriyama S	J Gen Virol. 73 ( Pt 5):1309-12	1992	Complete nucleotide sequence of RNA 4 of rice stripe virus isolate T, and comparison with another isolate and with maize stripe virus. 	The complete nucleotide sequence of RNA 4 of rice stripe virus isolate T (RSV-T) was determined and found to consist of 2157 nucleotides, containing two open reading frames (ORFs). One, deduced to be present in the 5'-proximal region of the viral-sense RNA, encodes the stripe disease-specific protein with Mr 20541, and the other ORF, in the 5'-proximal region of the viral complementary sense RNA, encodes an unknown protein with Mr 32474. Between these two ORFs there is an intergenic non-coding region that could form a secondary structure with two base-paired hairpin configurations. These characteristics indicate that RSV-T RNA 4 has an ambisense coding strategy. Comparison of the two ORFs of RSV-T with those of another isolate revealed 97.2% and 98.0% identity for the nucleotide sequences, and 98.3% and 98.2% identity for the amino acid sequences. The leader sequences of these two isolates were the same. However, an insertion was found in the intergenic non-coding region of RSV-T. Furthermore, comparison of the nucleotide and amino acid sequences of RSV-T RNA 4 with those of RNA 4 of maize stripe virus, which is another member of the tenuivirus group, revealed greater identity, suggesting a close phylogenetic relationship between these two viruses. 
PMID:15890927|PMCID:1112164	Yu Y, Kudchodkar SB, Alwine JC	J Virol. 79(11):6882-9	2005	Effects of simian virus 40 large and small tumor antigens on mammalian target of rapamycin signaling: small tumor antigen mediates hypophosphorylation of eIF4E-binding protein 1 late in infection. 	We report that late in a simian virus 40 (SV40) infection in CV-1 cells, there are significant decreases in phosphorylations of two mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling effectors, the eIF4E-binding protein (4E-BP1) and p70 S6 kinase (p70S6K). The hypophosphorylation of 4E-BP1 results in 4E-BP1 binding to eIF4E, leading to the inhibition of cap-dependent translation. The dephosphorylation of 4E-BP1 is specifically mediated by SV40 small t antigen and requires the protein phosphatase 2A binding domain but not an active DnaJ domain. Serum-starved primary African green monkey kidney (AGMK) cells also showed decreased phosphorylations of mTOR, 4E-BP1, and p70S6K at late times in infection (48 h postinfection [hpi]). However, at earlier times (12 and 24 hpi), in AGMK cells, phosphorylated p70S6K was moderately increased, correlating with a significant increase in phosphorylation of the p70S6K substrate, ribosomal protein S6. Hyperphosphorylation of 4E-BP1 at early times could not be determined, since hyperphosphorylated 4E-BP1 was present in mock-infected AGMK cells. Elevated levels of phosphorylated eIF4G, a third mTOR effector, were detected in both CV-1 and AGMK cells at all times after infection, indicating that eIF4G phosphorylation was induced throughout the infection and unaffected by small t antigen. The data suggest that during SV40 lytic infection in monkey cells, the phosphorylations of p70S6K, S6, and eIF4G are increased early in the infection (12 and 24 hpi), but late in the infection (48 hpi), the phosphorylations of mTOR, p70S6K, and 4E-BP1 are dramatically decreased by a mechanism mediated, at least in part, by small t antigen. 
PMID:16046164	Hetzer C, Dormeyer W, Schnoelzer M, Ott M	Microbes Infect. 7(13):1364-9	2005	Decoding Tat: the biology of HIV Tat posttranslational modifications. 	The Tat protein is a viral transactivator that activates HIV transcription through complex interactions with RNA and host cell factors. Tat undergoes multiple posttranslational modifications that regulate the dynamics and complexity of these interactions. The biology of these modifications and their role in Tat function are reviewed. 
PMID:16046244	Yuan X, Yao Z, Shan Y, Chen B, Yang Z, Wu J, Zhao Z, Chen J, Cong Y	Virus Res. 114(1-2):70-9	2005	Nucleolar localization of non-structural protein 3b, a protein specifically encoded by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus. 	The open reading frame 3 (ORF3) of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) genome encodes a predicted 154-amino acid protein, which lacks similarities to any known protein, and is named 3b. In this study, it was shown that 3b protein was predominately localized to nucleus with EGFP tag at its N- or C-terminus. The localization patterns were similar in different transfected cells. Immuno-fluorescence assay revealed that 3b protein was co-localized well with C23 in nucleolus. C23, B23 and fibrillarin all are important nucleolar proteins, which localize in the region of the nucleolus. Co-transfection of p3b-EGFP with pC23-DsRed, pB23-DsRed and pfibrillarin-DsRed further confirmed 3b's nucleolus localization. With construction of serial truncated mutants of 3b, a region (residues 134-154 aa) responsible for nucleolar localization was determinated in 3b protein. These results provide a new insight for further functional studies of SARS-CoV 3b protein. 
PMID:16051823|PMCID:1182630	Neumann G, Ebihara H, Takada A, Noda T, Kobasa D, Jasenosky LD, Watanabe S, Kim JH, Feldmann H, Kawaoka Y	J Virol. 79(16):10300-7	2005	Ebola virus VP40 late domains are not essential for viral replication in cell culture. 	Ebola virus particle formation and budding are mediated by the VP40 protein, which possesses overlapping PTAP and PPXY late domain motifs (7-PTAPPXY-13). These late domain motifs have also been found in the Gag proteins of retroviruses and the matrix proteins of rhabdo- and arenaviruses. While in vitro studies suggest a critical role for late domain motifs in the budding of these viruses, including Ebola virus, it remains unclear as to whether the VP40 late domains play a role in Ebola virus replication. Alteration of both late domain motifs drastically reduced VP40 particle formation in vitro. However, using reverse genetics, we were able to generate recombinant Ebola virus containing mutations in either or both of the late domains. Viruses containing mutations in one or both of their late domain motifs were attenuated by one log unit. Transmission and scanning electron microscopy did not reveal appreciable differences between the mutant and wild-type viruses released from infected cells. These findings indicate that the Ebola VP40 late domain motifs enhance virus replication but are not absolutely required for virus replication in cell culture. 
PMID:16087121	Cabras G, Decaussin G, Zeng Y, Djennaoui D, Melouli H, Broully P, Bouguermouh AM, Ooka T	J Clin Virol. 34(1):26-34	2005	Epstein-Barr virus encoded BALF1 gene is transcribed in Burkitt's lymphoma cell lines and in nasopharyngeal carcinoma's biopsies. 	The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) encodes two anti-apoptotic cellular Bcl2 homologs, BALF1 and BHRF1. BHRF1 has an anti-apoptotic activity but is rarely expressed in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). However, BALF1 is not yet well characterized. The objective of the study was to characterize BALF1 gene. First, the search of its transcriptional expression in EBV-positive B cell lines, EBV-positive Burkitt's lymphoma's cell lines and nasopharyngeal carcinoma's biopsies. Second, the examination of its anti-apoptotic activity in serum dependent assays. We first analysed the transcriptional expression of BALF1 by reverse transcriptase DNA polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. For the analysis of its anti-apoptotic activity, we transfected NIH3T3 cells with pBABE-BALF1 expression plasmid and studied serum dependence of these transfectants. BALF1 expression was detected in the latent stage and increased more significantly during the lytic phase in IgG-treated AKATA and TPA-SB-treated P3HR1-TK negative cell lines. As its expression was not affected by the inhibitor of viral DNA synthesis, this gene does not belong to late gene family. When analysed its transcription in Burkitt's lymphoma (BL)-derived cell lines and NPC biopsies, all BL-derived cell lines and more than 80% of NPC biopsies transcribed this gene. The study of serum dependence of BALF1-transfected NIH3T3 cells showed: with 10% of serum, BALF1 transfectants grew significantly more higher cell density than vector alone transfected NIH3T3 cell lines and with 1% of serum, BALF1 transfectants were capable of growing, but with about 40% reduced rate in comparison with those with 10% serum, while vector alone transfected NIH3T3 cells could not almost grow. BALF1 gene was transcribed in EBV-associated tumor cells. BALF1 could render cells to serum independent. These results suggest that BALF1 gene could play its role in EBV oncogenesis. 
PMID:16107218|PMCID:1190220	Yuan X, Shan Y, Zhao Z, Chen J, Cong Y	Virol J. 2:66	2005	G0/G1 arrest and apoptosis induced by SARS-CoV 3b protein in transfected cells. 	Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), cause of the life-threatening atypical pneumonia, infects many organs, such as lung, liver and immune organ, and induces parenchyma cells apoptosis and necrosis. The genome of SARS-CoV, not closely related to any of the previously characterized coronavirus, encodes replicase and four major structural proteins and a number of non-structural proteins. Published studies suggest that some non-structural proteins may play important roles in the replication, virulence and pathogenesis of viruses. Among the potential SARS-CoV non-structural proteins, 3b protein (ORF4) is predicted encoding 154 amino acids, lacking significant similarities to any known proteins. Till now, there is no report about the function of 3b protein. In this study, 3b gene was linked with the EGFP tag at the C- terminus. Through cell cycle analysis, it was found that over-expression of 3b-EGFP protein in Vero, 293 and COS-7 cells could induce cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 phase, and that especially in COS-7 cells, expression of 3b-EGFP was able to induce the increase of sub-G1 phase from 24 h after transfection, which was most obvious at 48 h. The apoptosis induction of 3b fusion protein in COS-7 cells was further confirmed by double cell labeling with 7-AAD and Annexin V, the function of 3b protein inducing cell G0/G1 arrest and apoptosis may provide a new insight for further study on the mechanism of SARS pathogenesis. 
PMID:16171838	Attoui H, Mohd Jaafar F, Belhouchet M, Biagini P, Cantaloube JF, de Micco P, de Lamballerie X	Virology. 343(2):212-23	2005	Expansion of family Reoviridae to include nine-segmented dsRNA viruses: isolation and characterization of a new virus designated Aedes pseudoscutellaris reovirus assigned to a proposed genus (Dinovernavirus). 	Family Reoviridae is known, by definition, to contain dsRNA viruses with 10-12 genome segments. We report here the characterization of the first member of this family with a nine-segmented genome. This virus was isolated from Aedes pseudoscutellaris mosquito cells and designated aedes pseudoscutellaris reovirus (APRV). Virions are single-shelled with turrets but are non-occluded by contrast to cypoviruses. APRV replicates in various mosquito cell lines, but not in mice or mammalian cells. Complete sequence analysis showed that APRV is phylogenetically related to cypoviruses, fijiviruses and oryzaviruses. The maximum amino acid identities with cypoviruses, oryzaviruses or fijiviruses in the polymerase, are compatible with values observed between these genera and lower than values within a given genus. This suggests that APRV should be classified within a new genus that we designated Dinovernavirus (sigla from D: Double-stranded, i: insect, nove: nine from the latin "novem", rna: RNA, virus) in family Reoviridae. 
PMID:16195788	Ma YP, Ruan Q, He R, Qi Y, Sun ZR, Ji YH, Huang YJ, Liu Q, Chen SR, Wang JD	Arch Virol. 151(4):827-35	2006	Sequence variability of the human cytomegalovirus UL141 Open Reading Frame in clinical strains. 	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) displays genetic polymorphisms. HCMV disease and tissue tropism may be related to specific genomic variability among strains. This work analyzed the genetic polymorphism of UL141 open reading frame (ORF), one of the genes in HCMV UL/b' region, from 21 clinical strains. 8 previously published UL141 sequences in the GenBank were used for sequence comparison. Detailed sequence analysis showed that the UL141 gene was highly conserved at both the nucleotide and amino acid level. The coding regions were identical in size. The nucleotide and amino acid sequence identities among all strains were 96.9-100% and 97.6-100%, respectively. 
PMID:16227217	Herrero-Martinez E, Roberts KL, Hollinshead M, Smith GL	J Gen Virol. 86(Pt 11):2961-8	2005	Vaccinia virus intracellular enveloped virions move to the cell periphery on microtubules in the absence of the A36R protein. 	Vaccinia virus (VACV) intracellular enveloped virus (IEV) particles are transported to the cell periphery on microtubules where they fuse with the plasma membrane to form cell-associated enveloped virus (CEV). Two IEV-specific proteins, F12L and A36R, are implicated in mediating transport of IEV. Without F12L, virus morphogenesis halts after formation of IEV, and CEV is not formed, whereas without A36R, IEV was reported not to be transported, yet CEV was formed, To address the roles of A36R and F12L in IEV transport, viruses with deletions of either F12L (vdeltaF12L) or A36R (vdeltaA36R) were labelled with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) fused to the core protein A5L, and used to follow CEV production with time. Without F12L, CEV production was inhibited by &gt;99 %, whereas without A36R, CEV were produced at approximately 60 % of wild-type levels at 24 h post-infection. Depolymerization of microtubules, but not actin, inhibited CEV formation in vdeltaA36R-infected cells. Moreover, vdeltaA36R IEV labelled with EGFP fused to the B5R protein co-localized with microtubules, showing that the A36R protein is not required for the interaction of IEV with microtubules. Time-lapse confocal microscopy confirmed that both wild-type and vdeltaA36R IEV moved in a stop-start manner at speeds consistent with microtubular movement, although the mean length of vdeltaA36R IEV movement was shorter. These data demonstrate that VACV IEV is transported to the cell surface using microtubules in the absence of A36R, and therefore IEV must attach to microtubule motors using at least one protein other than A36R. 
PMID:1626422	Feldmann H, Muhlberger E, Randolf A, Will C, Kiley MP, Sanchez A, Klenk HD	Virus Res. 24(1):1-19	1992	Marburg virus, a filovirus: messenger RNAs, gene order, and regulatory elements of the replication cycle. 	The genome of Marburg virus (MBG), a filovirus, is 19.1 kb in length and thus the largest one found with negative-strand RNA viruses. The gene order - 3' untranslated region-NP-VP35-VP40-GP-VP30-VP24-L-5' untranslated region-resembles that of other non-segmented negative-strand (NNS) RNA viruses. Six species of polyadenylated subgenomic RNAs, isolated from MBG-infected cells, are complementary to the negative-strand RNA genome. They can be translated in vitro into the known structural proteins NP, GP (non-glycosylated form), VP40, VP35, VP30 and VP24. At the gene boundaries conserved transcriptional start (3'-NNCUNCNUNUAAUU-5') and stop signals (3'-UAAUUCUUUUU-5') are located containing the highly conserved pentamer 3'-UAAUU-5'. Comparison with other NNS RNA viruses shows conservation primarily in the termination signals, whereas the start signals are more variable. The intergenic regions vary in length and nucleotide composition. All genes have relatively long 3' and 5' end non-coding regions. The putative 3' and 5' leader RNA sequences of the MBG genome resemble those of other NNS RNA viruses in length, conservation at the 3' and 5' ends, and in being complementary at their extremities. The data support the concept of a common taxonomic order Mononegavirales comprising the Filoviridae, Paramyxoviridae, and Rhabdoviridae families. 
PMID:16313992	Dietzgen RG, Callaghan B, Wetzel T, Dale JL	Virus Res. 118(1-2):16-22	2006	Completion of the genome sequence of Lettuce necrotic yellows virus, type species of the genus Cytorhabdovirus. 	We completed the genome sequence of Lettuce necrotic yellows virus (LNYV) by determining the nucleotide sequences of the 4a (putative phosphoprotein), 4b, M (matrix protein), G (glycoprotein) and L (polymerase) genes. The genome consists of 12,807 nucleotides and encodes six genes in the order 3' leader-N-4a(P)-4b-M-G-L-5' trailer. Sequences were derived from clones of a cDNA library from LNYV genomic RNA and from fragments amplified using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The 4a protein has a low isoelectric point characteristic for rhabdovirus phosphoproteins. The 4b protein has significant sequence similarities with the movement proteins of capillo- and trichoviruses and may be involved in cell-to-cell movement. The putative G protein sequence contains a predicted 25 amino acids signal peptide and endopeptidase cleavage site, three predicted glycosylation sites and a putative transmembrane domain. The deduced L protein sequence shows similarities with the L proteins of other plant rhabdoviruses and contains polymerase module motifs characteristic for RNA-dependent RNA polymerases of negative-strand RNA viruses. Phylogenetic analysis of this motif among rhabdoviruses placed LNYV in a group with other sequenced cytorhabdoviruses, most closely related to Strawberry crinkle virus. 
PMID:16336686|PMCID:1318495	Blouch RE, Byrd CM, Hruby DE	Virol J. 2:91	2005	Importance of disulphide bonds for vaccinia virus L1R protein function. 	L1R, a myristylated late gene product of vaccinia virus, is essential for formation of infectious intracellular mature virions (IMV). In its absence, only viral particles arrested at an immature stage are detected and no infectious progeny virus is produced. Previous studies have shown that the L1R protein is exclusively associated with the IMV membrane and that myristylation is required for correct targeting. The L1R protein contains six cysteine amino acid residues that have all been shown to participate in intramolecular disulphide bonds. However, it was not clear what role, if any, the disulfide bonds play in the membrane topology of the L1R protein. To address this question, a comprehensive library of L1R mutants in which the cysteine residues have been mutated to serine (either individually or in combination) were tested for their ability to rescue a L1R conditional lethal mutant virus under non-permissive conditions. Much to our surprise, we determined that C57 was not essential for production of infectious IMV. These results suggest that protein disulphide isomerases may be involved in reorganization of disulfide bonds within the L1R protein. 
PMID:16501123|PMCID:1395444	Lulla V, Merits A, Sarin P, Kaeaeriaeinen L, Keraenen S, Ahola T	J Virol. 80(6):3108-11	2006	Identification of mutations causing temperature-sensitive defects in Semliki Forest virus RNA synthesis. 	We have sequenced the nonstructural protein coding region of Semliki Forest virus temperature-sensitive (ts) mutant strains ts1, ts6, ts9, ts10, ts11, ts13, and ts14. In each case, the individual amino acid changes uncovered were transferred to the prototype strain background and thereby identified as the underlying cause of the altered RNA synthesis phenotype. All mutations mapping to the protease domain of nonstructural protein nsP2 caused defects in nonstructural polyprotein processing and subgenomic RNA synthesis, and all mutations in the helicase domain of nsP2 affected subgenomic RNA production. These types of defects were not associated with mutations in other nonstructural proteins. 
PMID:16504157|PMCID:1420270	Honeychurch KM, Byrd CM, Hruby DE	Virol J. 3:7	2006	Mutational analysis of the potential catalytic residues of the VV G1L metalloproteinase. 	The vaccinia virus G1L open-reading frame is predicted to be a metalloproteinase based upon the presence of a conserved zinc-binding motif. Western blot analysis demonstrates G1L undergoes proteolytic processing during the course of infection, although the significance of this event is unknown. In order to determine which amino acid residues are important for G1L activity, a plasmid-borne library of G1L constructs containing mutations in and about the active site was created. Transient expression analysis coupled with a trans complementation assay of a conditionally-lethal mutant virus suggest that, of the mutants, only glutamic acid 120 is non-essential for G1L processing to occur. 
PMID:16509968|PMCID:1540416	Yoder JD, Chen TS, Gagnier CR, Vemulapalli S, Maier CS, Hruby DE	Virol J. 3:10	2006	Pox proteomics: mass spectrometry analysis and identification of Vaccinia virion proteins. 	Although many vaccinia virus proteins have been identified and studied in detail, only a few studies have attempted a comprehensive survey of the protein composition of the vaccinia virion. These projects have identified the major proteins of the vaccinia virion, but little has been accomplished to identify the unknown or less abundant proteins. Obtaining a detailed knowledge of the viral proteome of vaccinia virus will be important for advancing our understanding of orthopoxvirus biology, and should facilitate the development of effective antiviral drugs and formulation of vaccines. In order to accomplish this task, purified vaccinia virions were fractionated into a soluble protein enriched fraction (membrane proteins and lateral bodies) and an insoluble protein enriched fraction (virion cores). Each of these fractions was subjected to further fractionation by either sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electophoresis, or by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography. The soluble and insoluble fractions were also analyzed directly with no further separation. The samples were prepared for mass spectrometry analysis by digestion with trypsin. Tryptic digests were analyzed by using either a matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight tandem mass spectrometer, a quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer, or a quadrupole-time of flight mass spectrometer (the latter two instruments were equipped with electrospray ionization sources). Proteins were identified by searching uninterpreted tandem mass spectra against a vaccinia virus protein database created by our lab and a non-redundant protein database. Sixty three vaccinia proteins were identified in the virion particle. The total number of peptides found for each protein ranged from 1 to 62, and the sequence coverage of the proteins ranged from 8.2% to 94.9%. Interestingly, two vaccinia open reading frames were confirmed as being expressed as novel proteins: E6R and L3L. 
PMID:16519916	Follis KE, York J, Nunberg JH	Virology. 350(2):358-69	2006	Furin cleavage of the SARS coronavirus spike glycoprotein enhances cell-cell fusion but does not affect virion entry. 	The fusogenic potential of Class I viral envelope glycoproteins is activated by proteloytic cleavage of the precursor glycoprotein to generate the mature receptor-binding and transmembrane fusion subunits. Although the coronavirus (CoV) S glycoproteins share membership in this class of envelope glycoproteins, cleavage to generate the respective S1 and S2 subunits appears absent in a subset of CoV species, including that responsible for the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). To determine whether proteolytic cleavage of the S glycoprotein might be important for the newly emerged SARS-CoV, we introduced a furin recognition site at single basic residues within the putative S1-S2 junctional region. We show that furin cleavage at the modified R667 position generates discrete S1 and S2 subunits and potentiates membrane fusion activity. This effect on the cell-cell fusion activity by the S glycoprotein is not, however, reflected in the infectivity of pseudotyped lentiviruses bearing the cleaved glycoprotein. The lack of effect of furin cleavage on virion infectivity mirrors that observed in the normally cleaved S glycoprotein of the murine coronavirus and highlights an additional level of complexity in coronavirus entry. 
PMID:16524473|PMCID:1421387	Batten JS, Turina M, Scholthof KB	Virol J. 3:12	2006	Panicovirus accumulation is governed by two membrane-associated proteins with a newly identified conserved motif that contributes to pathogenicity. 	Panicum mosaic virus (PMV) has a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA genome that serves as the mRNA for two 5'-proximal genes, p48 and p112. The p112 open reading frame (ORF) has a GDD-motif, a feature of virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerases. Replication assays in protoplasts showed that p48 and p112 are sufficient for replication of PMV and its satellite virus (SPMV). Differential centrifugation of extracts from PMV-infected plants showed that the p48 and p112 proteins are membrane-associated. The same fractions exhibited RNA polymerase activity in vitro on viral RNA templates, suggesting that p48 and p112 represent the viral replication proteins. Moreover, we identified a domain spanning amino acids 306 to 405 on the p48 and p112 PMV ORFs that is common to the Tombusviridae. Alanine scanning mutagenesis of the conserved domain (CD) revealed that several substitutions were lethal or severely debilitated PMV accumulation. Other substitutions did not affect RNA accumulation, yet they caused variable phenotypes suggestive of plant-dependent effects on systemic invasion and symptom induction. The mutants that were most debilitating to PMV replication were hydrophobic amino acids that we hypothesize are important for membrane localization and functional replicase activity. 
PMID:16571823|PMCID:1440425	Spiller OB, Mark L, Blue CE, Proctor DG, Aitken JA, Blom AM, Blackbourn DJ	J Virol. 80(8):4068-78	2006	Dissecting the regions of virion-associated Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus complement control protein required for complement regulation and cell binding. 	Complement, which bridges innate and adaptive immune responses as well as humoral and cell-mediated immunity, is antiviral. Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) encodes a lytic cycle protein called KSHV complement control protein (KCP) that inhibits activation of the complement cascade. It does so by regulating C3 convertases, accelerating their decay, and acting as a cofactor for factor I degradation of C4b and C3b, two components of the C3 and C5 convertases. These complement regulatory activities require the short consensus repeat (SCR) motifs, of which KCP has four (SCRs 1 to 4). We found that in addition to KCP being expressed on the surfaces of experimentally infected endothelial cells, it is associated with the envelope of purified KSHV virions, potentially protecting them from complement-mediated immunity. Furthermore, recombinant KCP binds heparin, an analogue of the known KSHV cell attachment receptor heparan sulfate, facilitating infection. Treating virus with an anti-KCP monoclonal antibody (MAb), BSF8, inhibited KSHV infection of cells by 35%. Epitope mapping of MAb BSF8 revealed that it binds within SCR domains 1 and 2, also the region of the protein involved in heparin binding. This MAb strongly inhibited classical C3 convertase decay acceleration by KCP and cofactor activity for C4b cleavage but not C3b cleavage. Our data suggest similar topological requirements for cell binding by KSHV, heparin binding, and regulation of C4b-containing C3 convertases but not for factor I-mediated cleavage of C3b. Importantly, they suggest KCP confers at least two functions on the virion: cell binding with concomitant infection and immune evasion. 
PMID:16574184	Oliver SL, Asobayire E, Dastjerdi AM, Bridger JC	Virology. 350(1):240-50	2006	Genomic characterization of the unclassified bovine enteric virus Newbury agent-1 (Newbury1) endorses a new genus in the family Caliciviridae. 	The pathogenic bovine enteric virus, Newbury agent-1 (Bo//Newbury1/1976/UK), first identified in 1976, was characterized as a possible calicivirus by morphology, buoyant density in CsCl and the presence of a single capsid protein but genomic sequence could not be obtained. In the present study, the complete genome sequence of Newbury1 was determined and classified Newbury1 in a new genus of the Caliciviridae. The Newbury1 genome, of 7454 nucleotides, had two predicted open reading frames (ORFs). ORF1 encoded the non-structural and contiguous capsid proteins. ORF2 encoded a basic protein characteristic of the family Caliciviridae. Compared to the 4 recognized Caliciviridae genera, Norovirus, Sapovirus, Lagovirus and Vesivirus, Newbury1 had less than 39% amino acid (47% nucleotide) identity in the complete 2C-helicase, 3C-protease, 3D-polymerase and capsid regions but had 89% to 98% amino acid (78% to 92% nucleotide) identity to the recently characterized NB virus in these regions. By phylogenetic analyses, Newbury1 and NB viruses formed a distinct clade independent of the 4 recognized genera. However, amino acid identities showed that Newbury1 and the NB virus were distinct polymerase types (90% amino acid identity), but their complete capsid proteins were almost identical (98% amino acid identity). Analyses of contemporary viruses showed that the two polymerase genotypes, Newbury1 and NB, were circulating in UK cattle and antibody to Newbury1-like viruses was common in cattle sera. The present study defined the existence of a new genus in the Caliciviridae that we propose be named Becovirus or Nabovirus to distinguish the new clade from bovine noroviruses. 
PMID:16597510	Doblas A, Domingo C, Bae HG, Bohorquez CL, de Ory F, Niedrig M, Mora D, Carrasco FJ, Tenorio A	J Clin Virol. 36(2):156-8	2006	Yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease and death in Spain. 	Yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease (YEL-AVD) is a recently described severe adverse event after yellow fever vaccination, and some cases have been reported in different countries [Anonymous. Effects of yellow fever and vaccination. Lancet 2001;358(9296):1907-9]. Herein we describe a YEL-AVD case in a young woman, who died after vaccination with 17D-204 strain. Clinical, serological and immunochemical analysis as well as virus detection, quantification, sequence analysis and cytokine release, were performed. Further investigations on yellow fever vaccine adverse events, and carefully analysis of the immune response elicited are important tasks for the future. 
PMID:1660196	Strayer DS, Jerng HH, O'Connor K	Virology. 185(2):585-95	1991	Sequence and analysis of a portion of the genomes of Shope fibroma virus and malignant rabbit fibroma virus that is important for viral replication in lymphocytes. 	The 10.7-kb BamHI "C" restriction fragment of malignant rabbit fibroma virus (MV) contains genes that are important for its immunosuppressive activity. When this fragment is transferred to a related avirulent leporipoxvirus, Shope fibroma virus (SFV), recombinant viruses show clinical features characteristic of MV: they replicate in lymphocytes and alter immune function in vitro, induce disseminated tumors in recipient rabbits, and are immunosuppressive in vivo. The 10.7-kb BamHI "C" restriction fragment of MV was sequenced in its entirety. Its DNA sequence and the 14 ORF's derived from analyzing this sequence are discussed. Analysis of known open reading frames to which the ORF's from MV's Bam "C" fragment show homology permits us to identify some MV ORF's showing high degrees of similarity to known and postulated proteins produced by vaccinia virus. Functions for some of these vaccinia proteins are known, while functions for others are hypothetical or unknown. Further analysis of genetic determinants of MV's virulence has indicated that two overlapping restriction subfragments of the BamHI "C" fragment can transfer MV's virulent behavior to SFV. The 0.7-kb region in which these two subfragments overlap includes the C-terminus of MV orf C-7 and the N terminus of MV orf C-8. These correspond to the C- and N-termini, respectively, of SFV orf's D-9 and D-10 and to vaccinia orf's D-6 (early transcription factor) and D-7 (subunit of RNA polymerase). We sequenced the region of SFV's BamHI "D" fragment in this area and illustrate here the comparative sequences of this portion of SFV's genome and orf's. On the basis of comparisons between MV, SFV, and vaccinia in this area we discuss the potential significance of these observations. 
PMID:16609730|PMCID:1434790	Urisman A, Molinaro RJ, Fischer N, Plummer SJ, Casey G, Klein EA, Malathi K, Magi-Galluzzi C, Tubbs RR, Ganem D, Silverman RH, DeRisi JL	PLoS Pathog. 2(3):e25	2006	Identification of a novel Gammaretrovirus in prostate tumors of patients homozygous for R462Q RNASEL variant. 	Ribonuclease L (RNase L) is an important effector of the innate antiviral response. Mutations or variants that impair function of RNase L, particularly R462Q, have been proposed as susceptibility factors for prostate cancer. Given the role of this gene in viral defense, we sought to explore the possibility that a viral infection might contribute to prostate cancer in individuals harboring the R462Q variant. A viral detection DNA microarray composed of oligonucleotides corresponding to the most conserved sequences of all known viruses identified the presence of gammaretroviral sequences in cDNA samples from seven of 11 R462Q-homozygous (QQ) cases, and in one of eight heterozygous (RQ) and homozygous wild-type (RR) cases. An expanded survey of 86 tumors by specific RT-PCR detected the virus in eight of 20 QQ cases (40%), compared with only one sample (1.5%) among 66 RQ and RR cases. The full-length viral genome was cloned and sequenced independently from three positive QQ cases. The virus, named XMRV, is closely related to xenotropic murine leukemia viruses (MuLVs), but its sequence is clearly distinct from all known members of this group. Comparison of gag and pol sequences from different tumor isolates suggested infection with the same virus in all cases, yet sequence variation was consistent with the infections being independently acquired. Analysis of prostate tissues from XMRV-positive cases by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed that XMRV nucleic acid and protein can be detected in about 1% of stromal cells, predominantly fibroblasts and hematopoietic elements in regions adjacent to the carcinoma. These data provide to our knowledge the first demonstration that xenotropic MuLV-related viruses can produce an authentic human infection, and strongly implicate RNase L activity in the prevention or clearance of infection in vivo. These findings also raise questions about the possible relationship between exogenous infection and cancer development in genetically susceptible individuals. 
PMID:16641300|PMCID:1472063	Neuhierl B, Delecluse HJ	J Virol. 80(10):5078-81	2006	The Epstein-Barr virus BMRF1 gene is essential for lytic virus replication. 	The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) BMRF1 protein is a DNA polymerase processivity factor. We have deleted the BMRF1 open reading frame from the EBV genome and assessed the DeltaBMRF1 EBV phenotype. DeltaBMRF1 viruses were replication deficient, but the wild-type phenotype could be restored by BMRF1 trans-complementation. The replication-deficient phenotype included impaired lytic DNA replication and late protein expression. DeltaBMRF1 and wild-type viruses were undistinguishable in terms of their ability to transform primary B cells. Our results provide genetic evidence that BMRF1 is essential for lytic replication of the EBV genome. 
PMID:16697675	King JE, Eugenin EA, Buckner CM, Berman JW	Microbes Infect. 8(5):1347-57	2006	HIV tat and neurotoxicity. 	HIV tat is the transactivator of HIV-1, supporting efficient viral replication by stabilizing the transcription of viral genes. Tat can be released from HIV-infected cells and alter several functions in uninfected cells. In the brain, tat induces neuronal dysfunction/toxicity, even though neurons cannot be directly infected with HIV, resulting in CNS pathology, such as the dementia and encephalitis associated with NeuroAIDS. This review discusses the most recent data addressing tat-induced neurotoxicity and integrates these new findings in the context of NeuroAIDS. 
PMID:16719918|PMCID:1502131	Johnson RF, Bell P, Harty RN	Virol J. 3:31	2006	Effect of Ebola virus proteins GP, NP and VP35 on VP40 VLP morphology. 	Recently we described a role for Ebola virus proteins, NP, GP, and VP35 in enhancement of VP40 VLP budding. To explore the possibility that VLP structure was altered by co-expression of EBOV proteins leading to the observed enhancement of VP40 VLP budding, we performed density gradient analysis as well as electron microscopy studies. Our data suggest that VP40 is the major determinant of VLP morphology, as co-expression of NP, GP and VP35 did not significantly change VLP density, length, and diameter. Ultra-structural changes were noted in the core of the VLPs when NP was co-expressed with VP40. Overall, these findings indicate that major changes in morphology of VP40 VLPs were likely not responsible for enhanced budding of VP40 VLPs in the presence of GP, NP and/or VP35. 
PMID:1681618	Watson JC, Chang HW, Jacobs BL	Virology. 185(1):206-16	1991	Characterization of a vaccinia virus-encoded double-stranded RNA-binding protein that may be involved in inhibition of the double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase. 	The work described in this article identifies a vaccinia virus-encoded protein that may be involved in inhibition of the interferon-induced, double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase. Extracts prepared from vaccinia virus (WR strain)-infected cells contain an inhibitor of this kinase. Inhibition was reduced in extracts from which dsRNA-binding proteins had been removed by preadsorption to poly(rI).poly(rC)-Sepharose, suggesting that a dsRNA-binding protein may be involved in kinase inhibition. A single major virus-specific polypeptide of Mr = 25,000 (p25) bound to the poly(rI).poly(rC)-Sepharose. p25 was synthesized in a coupled in vitro transcription/translation system programmed with vaccinia cores, indicating that it is a vaccinia-encoded protein. Synthesis of p25 was detected at early times, by 2 hr post infection, peaked at 5 hours postinfection, and decreased during the late phase of virus replication. In the presence of cytosine arabinoside p25 synthesis did not decrease at late times postinfection. Kinase inhibitory activity accumulated with similar kinetics to p25, both in the presence and absence of cytosine arabinoside. Kinase inhibitory activity copurified with p25, through gel filtration, and Cibacron blue-affinity chromatography. Removal of p25 by precipitation with antiserum to p25 decreased kinase inhibitory activity in extracts prepared from vaccinia virus-infected cells. These results suggest that p25 may be necessary for the specific kinase inhibitory activity detected in vaccinia virus-infected cells. 
PMID:16873247|PMCID:1563834	Su D, Lou Z, Sun F, Zhai Y, Yang H, Zhang R, Joachimiak A, Zhang XC, Bartlam M, Rao Z	J Virol. 80(16):7902-8	2006	Dodecamer structure of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus nonstructural protein nsp10. 	The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) nonstructural proteins nsp1 to nsp16 have been implicated by genetic analysis in the assembly of a functional replication/transcription complex. We report the crystal structure of nsp10 from SARS-CoV at 2.1-A resolution. The nsp10 structure has a novel fold, and 12 identical subunits assemble to form a unique spherical dodecameric architecture. Two zinc fingers have been identified from the nsp10 monomer structure with the sequence motifs C-(X)2-C-(X)5-H-(X)6-C and C-(X)2-C-(X)7-C-(X)-C. The nsp10 crystal structure is the first of a new class of zinc finger protein three-dimensional structures to be revealed experimentally. The zinc finger sequence motifs are conserved among all three coronavirus antigenic groups, implicating an essential function for nsp10 in all coronaviruses. Based on the structure, we propose that nsp10 is a transcription factor for coronavirus replication/transcription. 
PMID:16873265|PMCID:1563826	Shi X, Kohl A, Leonard VH, Li P, McLees A, Elliott RM	J Virol. 80(16):8089-99	2006	Requirement of the N-terminal region of orthobunyavirus nonstructural protein NSm for virus assembly and morphogenesis. 	The nonstructural protein NSm of Bunyamwera virus (BUNV), the prototype of the Bunyaviridae family, is encoded by the M segment in a polyprotein precursor, along with the virion glycoproteins, in the order Gn-NSm-Gc. As little is known of its function, we examined the intracellular localization, membrane integrality, and topology of NSm and its role in virus replication. We confirmed that NSm is an integral membrane protein and that it localizes in the Golgi complex, together with Gn and Gc. Coimmunoprecipitation assays and yeast two-hybrid analysis demonstrated that NSm was able to interact with other viral proteins. NSm is predicted to contain three hydrophobic (I, III, and V) and two nonhydrophobic (II and IV) domains. The N-terminal nonhydrophobic domain II was found in the lumen of an intracellular compartment. A novel BUNV assembly assay was developed to monitor the formation of infectious virus-like-particles (VLPs). Using this assay, we showed that deletions of either the complete NSm coding region or domains I, II, and V individually seriously compromised VLP production. Consistently, we were unable to rescue viable viruses by reverse genetics from cDNA constructs that contained the same deletions. However, we could generate mutant BUNV with deletions in NSm domains III and IV and also a recombinant virus with the green fluorescent protein open reading frame inserted into NSm domain IV. The mutant viruses displayed differences in their growth properties. Overall, our data showed that the N-terminal region of NSm, which includes domain I and part of domain II, is required for virus assembly and that the C-terminal hydrophobic domain V may function as an internal signal sequence for the Gc glycoprotein. 
PMID:16877059	Condit RC, Moussatche N, Traktman P	Adv Virus Res. 66:31-124	2006	In a nutshell: structure and assembly of the vaccinia virion. 	Poxviruses comprise a large family of viruses characterized by a large, linear dsDNA genome, a cytoplasmic site of replication and a complex virion morphology. The most notorious member of the poxvirus family is variola, the causative agent of smallpox. The laboratory prototype virus used for the study of poxviruses is vaccinia, the virus that was used as a live, naturally attenuated vaccine for the eradication of smallpox. Both the morphogenesis and structure of poxvirus virions are unique among viruses. Poxvirus virions apparently lack any of the symmetry features common to other viruses such as helical or icosahedral capsids or nucleocapsids. Instead poxvirus virions appear as "brick shaped" or "ovoid" membrane-bound particles with a complex internal structure featuring a walled, biconcave core flanked by "lateral bodies." The virion assembly pathway involves a remarkable fabrication of membrane-containing crescents and immature virions, which evolve into mature virions in a process that is unparalleled in virology. As a result of significant advances in poxvirus genetics and molecular biology during the past 15 years, we can now positively identify over 70 specific gene products contained in poxvirus virions, and we can describe the effects of mutations in over 50 specific genes on poxvirus assembly. This review summarizes these advances and attempts to assemble them into a comprehensible and thoughtful picture of poxvirus structure and assembly. 
PMID:16971015	Sarmiento C, Gomez E, Meier M, Kavanagh TA, Truve E	Virus Res. 123(1):95-9	2007	Cocksfoot mottle virus P1 suppresses RNA silencing in Nicotiana benthamiana and Nicotiana tabacum. 	The Sobemovirus genome consists of positive sense, single-stranded polycistronic RNA. The 5'-terminal ORF, encoding the protein P1, is its most variable region. Sobemoviral P1 has been described as dispensable for replication but indispensable for systemic infection. The P1 of Rice yellow mottle virus-Nigerian isolate (RYMV-N) is the only RNA silencing suppressor reported for sobemoviruses until now. Using an agrobacterium-mediated transient assay, we demonstrate here that P1 of Cocksfoot mottle virus-Norwegian isolate (CfMV-NO) suppresses RNA silencing in Nicotiana benthamiana and Nicotiana tabacum, two non-host plants. CfMV-NO P1 was able to suppress the initiation and maintenance of silencing. The suppression of systemic silencing was weaker with CfMV-NO P1 than in the case of RYMV-N P1. In the case of suppression at the local level, the reduction in the amount of 25-nucleotide small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) was less pronounced for CfMV-NO P1 than it was when RYMV-N P1 was used. At the same time, we show that CfMV-NO P1 did not bind siRNAs. 
PMID:17070938	Abd-Alla A, Bossin H, Cousserans F, Parker A, Bergoin M, Robinson A	J Virol Methods. 139(2):143-9	2007	Development of a non-destructive PCR method for detection of the salivary gland hypertrophy virus (SGHV) in tsetse flies. 	A PCR based diagnostic method to detect salivary gland hypertrophy virus (SGHV) in tsetse flies is described. Two sets of primers GpSGHV1F/GpSGHV1R and GpSGHV2F/GpSGHV2R were selected from a virus-specific sequence. Both primer sets can detect specifically the virus in individual tsetse flies by generating an amplicon of 401 bp. Attempts were made to develop a simple and reliable non-destructive virus detection method in live flies. PCR reactions were performed on either crude or purified tsetse DNA from saliva and legs. While saliva can be an indicator for the presence of the virus in flies, the method is laborious. Crude extract from an excised middle leg resulted in a positive PCR reaction equivalent to crude extract from whole fly. However, sensitivity could be significantly increased when purified DNA was used as the template. In conclusion, PCR using a purified DNA template from a single tsetse leg represents an efficient, non-destructive method for virus diagnosis in live tsetse flies. 
PMID:17115301	Meier M, Truve E	Arch Virol. 152(3):635-40	2007	Sobemoviruses possess a common CfMV-like genomic organization. 	Based on structural differences in the ORF2 region, the sobemoviruses have been subdivided into southern cowpea mosaic virus (SCPMV)-like and cocksfoot mottle virus (CfMV)-like types of genome organization. However, nearly identical amino acid sequences are encoded by these subgroups in different reading frames of ORF2, suggesting that insertion or deletion of appropriate nucleotides could restore similar genomic organizations for these viruses. We resequenced the regions of inconsistency for isolates of four SCPMV-like viruses: lucerne transient streak virus, ryegrass mottle virus, southern bean mosaic virus, and SCPMV. A comparison of nucleic acid composition of these sequences with previously published ones revealed crucial differences that established a common CfMV-like genomic organization for these sobemoviruses. 
PMID:17218138	Ushijima Y, Luo C, Goshima F, Yamauchi Y, Kimura H, Nishiyama Y	Microbes Infect. 9(2):142-9	2007	Determination and analysis of the DNA sequence of highly attenuated herpes simplex virus type 1 mutant HF10, a potential oncolytic virus. 	A spontaneously occurring herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) mutant, designated HF10, replicates very efficiently and induces extensive cell fusion in most transformed cells as well as Vero cells, but is highly attenuated in mice when inoculated by peripheral routes of infection. Recent studies have shown that HF10 is a promising agent for use in oncolytic virotherapy. In this study, we sequenced the genome of HF10 and compared it with that of HSV-1 strain 17, a reference strain with the syn+ phenotype. The sequencing covered whole regions corresponding to all open reading frames of strain 17, and the overall putative amino acid identity between HF10 and strain 17 was 99.1% except for proteins encoded by three genes with frame-shift mutations. HF10 had a number of deletions and insertions in the genome, resulting in the lack of the functional expression of UL43, UL49.5, UL55, UL56 and latency-associated transcripts. Additionally, HF10 had amino acid changes in genes involved in the regulation of syncytium formation, including UL1, UL20, UL22, UL24, UL27 and UL53. The proteins encoded by UL1, UL2, UL11, UL44, US1, US7, US8.5, US10 and US12 exhibited a relatively high divergence. These data provide the genetic background of HF10 and insight into the molecular mechanism of HSV-1 replication and pathogenicity. 
PMID:17239238|PMCID:1783846	Eaton HE, Metcalf J, Penny E, Tcherepanov V, Upton C, Brunetti CR	Virol J. 4:11	2007	Comparative genomic analysis of the family Iridoviridae: re-annotating and defining the core set of iridovirus genes. 	Members of the family Iridoviridae can cause severe diseases resulting in significant economic and environmental losses. Very little is known about how iridoviruses cause disease in their host. In the present study, we describe the re-analysis of the Iridoviridae family of complex DNA viruses using a variety of comparative genomic tools to yield a greater consensus among the annotated sequences of its members. A series of genomic sequence comparisons were made among, and between the Ranavirus and Megalocytivirus genera in order to identify novel conserved ORFs. Of these two genera, the Megalocytivirus genomes required the greatest number of altered annotations. Prior to our re-analysis, the Megalocytivirus species orange-spotted grouper iridovirus and rock bream iridovirus shared 99% sequence identity, but only 82 out of 118 potential ORFs were annotated; in contrast, we predict that these species share an identical complement of genes. These annotation changes allowed the redefinition of the group of core genes shared by all iridoviruses. Seven new core genes were identified, bringing the total number to 26. Our re-analysis of genomes within the Iridoviridae family provides a unifying framework to understand the biology of these viruses. Further re-defining the core set of iridovirus genes will continue to lead us to a better understanding of the phylogenetic relationships between individual iridoviruses as well as giving us a much deeper understanding of iridovirus replication. In addition, this analysis will provide a better framework for characterizing and annotating currently unclassified iridoviruses. 
PMID:17335913	Smith RF, Freyer MW, Lewis EA	J Virol Methods. 142(1-2):151-8	2007	Biophysical characterization of vaccinia virus thymidine kinase substrate utilization. 	To provide information for the development of new antiviral compounds that inhibit orthopoxviruses, further characterization of the kinetics and thermodynamics that underlie substrate utilization reactions of vaccinia virus thymidine kinase (VVTK) has been undertaken. The kinetics of 2'deoxythymidine phosphorylation by VVTK and the thermodynamics of complex formation between VVTK and the substrate 2' deoxythymidine were determined using spectroscopic and calorimetric techniques. These studies demonstrated that kinetic parameters for 2' deoxythymidine phosphorylation by VVTK were 25 microM and 0.2s(-1) for K(m) and k(cat), respectively. The enthalpy change, Delta H, for the enzyme catalyzed reaction is -18.1 kcal/mol. Thermodynamic studies for the formation of the enzyme substrate complex demonstrated a binding affinity (K(a)) of 4 x 10(4)M(-1), an enthalpy change for binding (Delta H) of -17.4 kcal/mol, and a reaction stoichiometry of two molecules of substrate binding to each enzyme tetramer. Kinetic and thermodynamic data were in agreement (K(a) approximately 1/K(m)) and showed similarities to literature values reported for herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (HSV-TK) and human thymidine kinase 1 (hTK1) with respect to k(cat) but not with respect to K(m). The K(m) value found for VVTK in this study is nearly two orders of magnitude larger than the values reported for the hTK1 and the HSV TK enzymes. 
PMID:17367888|PMCID:2001268	White TC, Yi Z, Hogue BG	Virus Res. 126(1-2):139-48	2007	Identification of mouse hepatitis coronavirus A59 nucleocapsid protein phosphorylation sites. 	The coronavirus nucleocapsid (N) is a multifunctional phosphoprotein that encapsidates the genomic RNA into a helical nucleocapsid within the mature virion. The protein also plays roles in viral RNA transcription and/or replication and possibly viral mRNA translation. Phosphorylation is one of the most common post-translation modifications that plays important regulatory roles in modulating protein functions. It has been speculated for sometime that phosphorylation could play an important role in regulation of coronavirus N protein functions. As a first step toward positioning to address this we have identified the amino acids that are phosphorylated on the mouse hepatitis coronavirus (MHV) A59 N protein. High performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-MS/MS) was used to identify phosphorylated sites on the N protein from both infected cells and purified extracellular virions. A total of six phosphorylated sites (S162, S170, T177, S389, S424 and T428) were identified on the protein from infected cells. The same six sites were also phosphorylated on the extracellular mature virion N protein. This is the first identification of phosphorylated sites for a group II coronavirus N protein. 
PMID:17374780	Mielke N, Muehlbach HP	J Gen Virol. 88(Pt 4):1337-46	2007	A novel, multipartite, negative-strand RNA virus is associated with the ringspot disease of European mountain ash (Sorbus aucuparia L.). 	Four RNAs from a new plant-pathogenic virus, which we have tentatively named European mountain ash ringspot-associated virus (EMARAV), were identified and sequenced completely. All four viral RNAs could be detected in previous double-stranded RNA preparations. RNA 1 (7040 nt) encodes a protein with similarity to the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of different members of the Bunyaviridae, a family containing five genera with viruses infecting invertebrates, vertebrates and plants. RNA 2 (2335 nt) encodes a 75 kDa protein containing a conserved motif of the glycoprotein precursor of the genus Phlebovirus. Immunological detection indicated the presence of proteins with the expected size of the precursor and one of its processing products. The amino acid sequence of protein p3 (35 kDa) encoded by RNA 3 shows similarities to a putative nucleocapsid protein of two still unclassified plant viruses. The fourth viral RNA encodes a 27 kDa protein that has no significant homology to any known protein. As is typical for members of the family Bunyaviridae, the 5' and 3' ends of all viral RNAs are complementary, which allows the RNA to form a panhandle structure. Comparison of these sequences demonstrates a conserved terminal part of 13 nt, similar to that of the bunyaviral genus Orthobunyavirus. Despite the high agreement of the EMARAV genome with several characteristics of the family Bunyaviridae, there are a few features that make it difficult to allocate the virus to this group. It is therefore more likely that this plant pathogen belongs to a novel virus genus. 
PMID:17426918	Moriyasu Y, Maruyama-Funatsuki W, Kikuchi A, Ichimi K, Zhong B, Yan J, Zhu Y, Suga H, Watanabe Y, Ichiki-Uehara T, Shimizu T, Hagiwara K, Kamiunten H, Akutsu K, Omura T	Arch Virol. 152(7):1315-22	2007	Molecular analysis of the genome segments S1, S4, S6, S7 and S12 of a Rice gall dwarf virus isolate from Thailand; completion of the genomic sequence. 	The complete nucleotide sequences of the double-stranded RNA segments S1, S4, S6, S7 and S12 of the genome of a Rice gall dwarf virus (RGDV) isolate from Thailand were determined. The segments consisted of 4505, 2622, 1648, 1652 and 853 nucleotides, encoding putative proteins of 1458, 725, 489, 511 and 206 amino acids with molecular masses of approximately 166, 80, 53, 59 and 24 kDa, respectively. Homology searches indicated that each of the putative proteins has a counterpart in isolates of Rice dwarf virus (RDV) and Wound tumor virus, two other species in the genus Phytoreovirus. However, no similarities were found to other registered sequences, including those of other viruses that belong to the family Reoviridae. The identities between homologous structural proteins of RGDV and RDV ranged from 34 to 51% and were thus higher than those between homologous non-structural proteins of RGDV and RDV (16-37%). Among the nonstructural proteins, the highest amino acid sequence identity (37%) was observed for RGDV Pns11 and RDV Pns10, a constituent of tubular inclusions. This observation suggests that a specific amino acid backbone might be required for maintaining not only the three-dimensional structure of virions but also that of inclusions. The entire sequence of the RGDV genome is now available. 
PMID:17488515|PMCID:1877800	Bennett RS, Ton DR, Hanson CT, Murphy BR, Whitehead SS	Virol J. 4:41	2007	Genome sequence analysis of La Crosse virus and in vitro and in vivo phenotypes. 	La Crosse virus (LACV), family Bunyaviridae, is a mosquito-borne virus recognized as a major cause of pediatric encephalitis in North America with 70-130 symptomatic cases each year. The virus was first identified as a human pathogen in 1960 after its isolation from a 4 year-old girl who suffered encephalitis and died in La Crosse, Wisconsin. The majority of LACV infections are mild and never reported, however, serologic studies estimate infection rates of 10-30/100,000 in endemic areas. In the present study, sequence analysis of the complete LACV genomes of low-passage LACV/human/1960, LACV/mosquito/1978, and LACV/human/1978 strains and of biologically cloned derivatives of each strain, indicates that circulating LACVs are genetically stable over time and geographic distance with 99.6-100%, 98.9-100%, 97.8-99.6%, and 99.2-99.7% amino acid identity for N, NsS, M polyprotein, and L proteins respectively. We identified 5 amino acid differences in the RNA polymerase and 4 nucleotide differences in the non-coding region of the L segment specific to the human virus isolates, which may result in altered disease outcomes. All three wild type viruses had similar in vitro growth kinetics and phenotypes in mosquito C6/36 and Vero cells, and similar levels of neurovirulence and neuroinvasiveness in Swiss Webster mice. The biologically cloned derivative of LACV/human/1960 was significantly less neuroinvasive than its uncloned parent and differed in sequence at one amino acid position in the GN glycoprotein, identifying this residue as an attenuating mutation. 
PMID:17625005|PMCID:1947960	Yang SJ, Hruby DE	Virol J. 4:73	2007	Vaccinia virus A12L protein and its AG/A proteolysis play an important role in viral morphogenic transition. 	Like the major vaccinia virus (VV) core protein precursors, p4b and p25K, the 25 kDa VV A12L late gene product (p17K) is proteolytically maturated at the conserved Ala-Gly-Ala motif. However, the association of the precursor and its cleavage product with the core of mature virion suggests that both of the A12L proteins may be required for virus assembly. Here, in order to test the requirement of the A12L protein and its proteolysis in viral replication, a conditional lethal mutant virus (vvtetOA12L) was constructed to regulate A12L expression by the presence or absence of an inducer, tetracycline. In the absence of tetracycline, replication of vvtetOA12L was inhibited by 80% and this inhibition could be overcome by transient expression of the wild-type copy of the A12L gene. In contrast, mutation of the AG/A site abrogated the ability of the transfected A12L gene to rescue, indicating that A12L proteolysis plays an important role in viral replication. Electron microscopy analysis of the A12L deficient virus demonstrated the aberrant virus particles, which were displayed by the AG/A site mutation. Thus, we concluded that the not only A12L protein but also its cleavage processing plays an essential role in virus morphogenic transition. 
PMID:17630831|PMCID:1914068	Belzile JP, Duisit G, Rougeau N, Mercier J, Finzi A, Cohen EA	PLoS Pathog. 3(7):e85	2007	HIV-1 Vpr-mediated G2 arrest involves the DDB1-CUL4AVPRBP E3 ubiquitin ligase. 	Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) viral protein R (Vpr) has been shown to cause G2 cell cycle arrest in human cells by inducing ATR-mediated inactivation of p34cdc2, but factors directly engaged in this process remain unknown. We used tandem affinity purification to isolate native Vpr complexes. We found that damaged DNA binding protein 1 (DDB1), viral protein R binding protein (VPRBP), and cullin 4A (CUL4A)--components of a CUL4A E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, DDB1-CUL4A(VPRBP)--were able to associate with Vpr. Depletion of VPRBP by small interfering RNA impaired Vpr-mediated induction of G2 arrest. Importantly, VPRBP knockdown alone did not affect normal cell cycle progression or activation of ATR checkpoints, suggesting that the involvement of VPRBP in G2 arrest was specific to Vpr. Moreover, leucine/isoleucine-rich domain Vpr mutants impaired in their ability to interact with VPRBP and DDB1 also produced strongly attenuated G2 arrest. In contrast, G2 arrest-defective C-terminal Vpr mutants were found to maintain their ability to associate with these proteins, suggesting that the interaction of Vpr with the DDB1-VPRBP complex is necessary but not sufficient to block cell cycle progression. Overall, these results point toward a model in which Vpr could act as a connector between the DDB1-CUL4A(VPRBP) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex and an unknown cellular factor whose proteolysis or modulation of activity through ubiquitination would activate ATR-mediated checkpoint signaling and induce G2 arrest. 
PMID:17658947|PMCID:1924868	Daniels R, Sadowicz D, Hebert DN	PLoS Pathog. 3(7):e98	2007	A very late viral protein triggers the lytic release of SV40. 	How nonenveloped viruses such as simian virus 40 (SV40) trigger the lytic release of their progeny is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that SV40 expresses a novel later protein termed VP4 that triggers the timely lytic release of its progeny. Like VP3, VP4 synthesis initiates from a downstream AUG start codon within the VP2 transcript and localizes to the nucleus. However, VP4 expression occurs approximately 24 h later at a time that coincides with cell lysis, and it is not incorporated into mature virions. Mutation of the VP4 initiation codon from the SV40 genome delayed lysis by 2 d and reduced infectious particle release. Furthermore, the co-expression of VP4 and VP3, but not their individual expression, recapitulated cell lysis in bacteria. Thus, SV40 regulates its life cycle by the later temporal expression of VP4, which results in cell lysis and enables the 50-nm virus to exit the cell. This study also demonstrates how viruses can generate multiple proteins with diverse functions and localizations from a single reading frame. 
PMID:17678539|PMCID:1959187	Yang SJ	Virol J. 4:78	2007	Characterization of vaccinia virus A12L protein proteolysis and its participation in virus assembly. 	Vaccinia virus (VV) undergoes a proteolytic processing to evolve from immature virus particles into intracellular mature virus particles. Most of structural core protein precursors such as p4a, p4b, and p25K are assembled into previrions and then proteolytically processed to yield core proteins, 4a, 4b, and 25 K, which become components of a mature virus particle. These structural rearrangements take place at a conserved cleavage motif, Ala-Gly-X (where X is any amino acid) and catalyzed by a VV encoded proteinase, the I7L gene product. The VV A12L gene product, a 25 kDa protein synthesized at late times during infection is cleaved at an N-terminal AG/A site, resulting in a 17 kDa cleavage product. However, due to the distinct characteristics of A12L proteolysis such as the localization of both the A12L full-length protein and its cleavage product in mature virions and two putative cleavage sites (Ala-Gly-Lys) located at internal and C-terminal region of A12L ORF, it was of interest to examine the A12L proteolysis for better understanding of regulation and function of VV proteolysis. Here, we attempted to examine the in vivo A12L processing by: determining the kinetics of the A12L proteolysis, the responsible viral protease, and the function of the A12L protein and its cleavage events. Surprisingly, the A12L precursor was cleaved into multiple peptides not only at an N-terminal AG/A but also at both an N- and a C-terminus. Despite the involvement of I7L proteinase for A12L proteolysis, its incomplete processing with slow kinetics and additional cleavages not at the two AG/K sites demonstrate unique regulation of VV proteolysis. An immunoprecipitation experiment in concert with N-terminal sequencing analyses and mass spectrometry led to the identification of VV core and membrane proteins, which may be associated with the A12L protein and suggested possible involvement of A12L protein and its cleavage products in multiple stages in virus morphogenesis. 
PMID:17680321	Zhang J, Miszczak F, Pronost S, Fortier C, Balasuriya UB, Zientara S, Fortier G, Timoney PJ	Arch Virol. 152(11):1977-94	2007	Genetic variation and phylogenetic analysis of 22 French isolates of equine arteritis virus. 	Genetic variation and phylogenetic relationships among 22 French isolates of equine arteritis virus (EAV) obtained over four breeding seasons (2001-2004) were determined by sequencing open reading frames (ORFs) 2a-7. The ORFs 2a-7 of 22 isolates differed from the prototype virulent Bucyrus strain of EAV by between 14 (99.5% identity) and 328 (88.7% identity) nucleotides, and differed from each other by between 0 (100% identity) and 346 (88.1% identity) nucleotides, confirming genetic diversity among EAV strains circulating in France. Phylogenetic analysis based on the partial ORF5 sequences (nucleotides 11296-11813) of 22 French isolates and 216 additional EAV strains available in GenBank clustered the global isolates of EAV into two distinct groups: North American and European. The latter could be further divided into two large subgroups: European subgroup 1 (EU-1) and European subgroup 2 (EU-2). Phylogenetic analysis based on 100 EAV ORF3 sequences yielded similar results. Of the 22 French EAV isolates, the 11 isolates obtained before January 28, 2003 clustered with either the EU-1 (9 isolates) or EU-2 (2 isolates) subgroup. In contrast, by the criteria used in this study, the 11 isolates obtained after January 30, 2003 belong to the North American group, strongly suggesting that these strains were recently introduced into France. 
PMID:17680322	Akamatsu N, Takeda A, Kishimoto M, Kaido M, Okuno T, Mise K	Arch Virol. 152(11):2087-93	2007	Phosphorylation and interaction of the movement and coat proteins of brome mosaic virus in infected barley protoplasts. 	The 3a movement protein (B3a) of brome mosaic virus (BMV) plays essential roles in the cell-to-cell movement of BMV. B3a is known to bind nucleic acids, to transport RNA to neighbouring cells, and to form tubular structures. Here, we tested the assumption that phosphorylation may be a mechanism that regulates B3a functions and showed that not only B3a but also the coat protein, BCP, was phosphorylated in BMV-infected barley protoplasts. Both BCP and B3a were detected in a complex immunoprecipitated from BMV-infected protoplasts with anti-B3a antiserum, implying an interaction between BCP and B3a. 
PMID:17708756	Kochan G, Escors D, Gonzalez JM, Casasnovas JM, Esteban M	Cell Microbiol. 10(1):149-64	2008	Membrane cell fusion activity of the vaccinia virus A17-A27 protein complex. 	Vaccinia virus enters cells by endocytosis and via a membrane fusion mechanism mediated by viral envelope protein complexes. While several proteins have been implicated in the entry/fusion event, there is no direct proof for fusogenic activity of any viral protein in heterologous systems. Transient coexpression of A17 and A27 in mammalian cells led to syncytia formation in a pH-dependent manner, as ascertained by confocal fluorescent immunomicroscopy. The pH-dependent fusion activity was identified to reside in A17 amino-terminal ectodomain after overexpression in insect cells using recombinant baculoviruses. Through the use of A17 ectodomain deletion mutants, it was found that the domain important for fusion spanned between residues 18 and 34. To further characterize A17-A27 fusion activity in mammalian cells, 293T cell lines stably expressing A17, A27 or coexpressing both proteins were generated using lentivectors. A27 was exposed on the cell surface only when A17 was coexpressed. In addition, pH-dependent fusion activity was functionally demonstrated in mammalian cells by cytoplasmic transfer of fluorescent proteins, only when A17 and A27 were coexpressed. Bioinformatic tools were used to compare the putative A17-A27 protein complex with well-characterized fusion proteins. Finally, all experimental evidence was integrated into a working model for A17-A27-induced pH-dependent cell-to-cell fusion. 
PMID:17913541	Asai R, Ohno T, Kato A, Kawaguchi Y	Microbes Infect. 9(12-13):1434-8	2007	Identification of proteins directly phosphorylated by UL13 protein kinase from herpes simplex virus 1. 	Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) UL13 is a viral protein kinase that regulates optimal viral replication in cell cultures. Identification of substrates of protein kinases is a crucial step to elucidate the mechanism by which they function. Using our developed system to analyze the specific protein kinase activity of UL13, we have shown that UL13 protein kinase directly phosphorylates the viral proteins ICP22 and UL49 previously reported to be putative substrates. We also identified UL41 as a previously unreported and novel substrate of UL13. These data will serve as a basis to clarify the mechanism by which UL13 influences viral replication. 
PMID:17933412	Susaimuthu J, Tzanetakis IE, Gergerich RC, Martin RR	Virus Res. 131(2):145-51	2008	A member of a new genus in the Potyviridae infects Rubus. 	Blackberry yellow vein disease causes devastating losses on blackberry in the south and southeastern United States. Blackberry yellow vein associated virus (BYVaV) was identified as the putative causal agent of the disease but the identification of latent infections of BYVaV led to the investigation of additional agents being involved in symptomatology. A potyvirus, designated as Blackberry virus Y (BVY), has been identified in plants with blackberry yellow vein disease symptoms also infected with BYVaV. BVY is the largest potyvirus sequenced to date and the first to encode an AlkB domain. The virus shows minimal sequence similarity with known members of the family and should be considered member of a novel genus in the Potyviridae. The relationship of BVY with Bramble yellow mosaic virus, the only other potyvirus known to infect Rubus was investigated. The presence of the BVY was verified in several blackberry plants, but it is not the causal agent of blackberry yellow vein disease since several symptomatic plants were not infected with the virus and BVY was also detected in asymptomatic plants. 
PMID:17958906|PMCID:2170442	DiCarlo A, Moeller P, Lander A, Kolesnikova L, Becker S	Virol J. 4:105	2007	Nucleocapsid formation and RNA synthesis of Marburg virus is dependent on two coiled coil motifs in the nucleoprotein. 	The nucleoprotein (NP) of Marburg virus (MARV) is responsible for the encapsidation of viral genomic RNA and the formation of the helical nucleocapsid precursors that accumulate in intracellular inclusions in infected cells. To form the large helical MARV nucleocapsid, NP needs to interact with itself and the viral proteins VP30, VP35 and L, which are also part of the MARV nucleocapsid. In the present study, a conserved coiled coil motif in the central part of MARV NP was shown to be an important element for the interactions of NP with itself and VP35, the viral polymerase cofactor. Additionally, the coiled coil motif was essential for the formation of NP-induced intracellular inclusions and for the function of NP in the process of transcription and replication of viral RNA in a minigenome system. Transfer of the coiled coil motif to a reporter protein was sufficient to mediate interaction of the constructed fusion protein with the N-terminus of NP. The coiled coil motif is bipartite, constituted by two coiled coils which are separated by a flexible linker. 
PMID:17996071|PMCID:2186317	Melancon JM, Fulmer PA, Kousoulas KG	Virol J. 4:120	2007	The herpes simplex virus UL20 protein functions in glycoprotein K (gK) intracellular transport and virus-induced cell fusion are independent of UL20 functions in cytoplasmic virion envelopment. 	The HSV-1 UL20 protein (UL20p) and glycoprotein K (gK) are both important determinants of cytoplasmic virion morphogenesis and virus-induced cell fusion. In this manuscript, we examined the effect of UL20 mutations on the coordinate transport and Trans Golgi Network (TGN) localization of UL20p and gK, virus-induced cell fusion and infectious virus production. Deletion of 18 amino acids from the UL20p carboxyl terminus (UL20 mutant 204t) inhibited intracellular transport and cell-surface expression of both gK and UL20, resulting in accumulation of UL20p and gK in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in agreement with the inability of 204t to complement UL20-null virus replication and virus-induced cell fusion. In contrast, less severe carboxyl terminal deletions of either 11 or six amino acids (UL20 mutants 211t and 216t, respectively) allowed efficient UL20p and gK intracellular transport, cell-surface expression and TGN colocalization. However, while both 211t and 216t failed to complement for infectious virus production, 216t complemented for virus-induced cell fusion, but 211t did not. These results indicated that the carboxyl terminal six amino acids of UL20p were crucial for infectious virus production, but not involved in intracellular localization of UL20p/gK and concomitant virus-induced cell fusion. In the amino terminus of UL20, UL20p mutants were produced changing one or both of the Y38 and Y49 residues found within putative phosphorylation sites. UL20p tyrosine-modified mutants with both tyrosine residues changed enabled efficient intracellular transport and TGN localization of UL20p and gK, but failed to complement for either infectious virus production, or virus-induced cell fusion. These results show that UL20p functions in cytoplasmic envelopment are separable from UL20 functions in UL20p intracellular transport, cell surface expression and virus-induced cell fusion. 
PMID:18191571|DOI:10.1016/j.tim.2007.12.004|PMCID:2527862	Bergelson JM	Trends Microbiol. 16(2):44-7	2008	New (fluorescent) light on poliovirus entry. 	To initiate infection, poliovirus must release its RNA genome into the cytoplasm of a target cell, a process called 'uncoating'. How this occurs has remained uncertain, despite studies over several decades. Two new studies re-address the question of poliovirus entry. The results suggest that poliovirus enters different cells by different mechanisms, and point to a role for virus-induced intracellular signals in the process. 
PMID:18226242|DOI:10.1186/1742-4690-5-8|PMCID:2266780	Vardabasso C, Manganaro L, Lusic M, Marcello A, Giacca M	Retrovirology. 5:8	2008	The histone chaperone protein Nucleosome Assembly Protein-1 (hNAP-1) binds HIV-1 Tat and promotes viral transcription. 	Despite the large amount of data available on the molecular mechanisms that regulate HIV-1 transcription, crucial information is still lacking about the interplay between chromatin conformation and the events that regulate initiation and elongation of viral transcription. During transcriptional activation, histone acetyltransferases and ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes cooperate with histone chaperones in altering chromatin structure. In particular, human Nucleosome Assembly Protein-1 (hNAP-1) is known to act as a histone chaperone that shuttles histones H2A/H2B into the nucleus, assembles nucleosomes and promotes chromatin fluidity, thereby affecting transcription of several cellular genes. Using a proteomic screening, we identified hNAP-1 as a novel cellular protein interacting with HIV-1 Tat. We observed that Tat specifically binds hNAP1, but not other members of the same family of factors. Binding between the two proteins required the integrity of the basic domain of Tat and of two separable domains of hNAP-1 (aa 162-290 and 290-391). Overexpression of hNAP-1 significantly enhanced Tat-mediated activation of the LTR. Conversely, silencing of the protein decreased viral promoter activity. To explore the effects of hNAP-1 on viral infection, a reporter HIV-1 virus was used to infect cells in which hNAP-1 had been either overexpressed or knocked-down. Consistent with the gene expression results, these two treatments were found to increase and inhibit viral infection, respectively. Finally, we also observed that the overexpression of p300, a known co-activator of both Tat and hNAP-1, enhanced hNAP-1-mediated transcriptional activation as well as its interaction with Tat. Our study reveals that HIV-1 Tat binds the histone chaperone hNAP-1 both in vitro and in vivo and shows that this interaction participates in the regulation of Tat-mediated activation of viral gene expression. 
PMID:18266467|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.0040022|PMCID:2233672	Chen RA, Ryzhakov G, Cooray S, Randow F, Smith GL	PLoS Pathog. 4(2):e22	2008	Inhibition of IkappaB kinase by vaccinia virus virulence factor B14. 	The IkappaB kinase (IKK) complex is a key regulator of signal transduction pathways leading to the induction of NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression and production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. It therefore represents a major target for the development of anti-inflammatory therapeutic drugs and may be targeted by pathogens seeking to diminish the host response to infection. Previously, the vaccinia virus (VACV) strain Western Reserve B14 protein was characterised as an intracellular virulence factor that alters the inflammatory response to infection by an unknown mechanism. Here we demonstrate that ectopic expression of B14 inhibited NF-kappaB activation in response to TNFalpha, IL-1beta, poly(I:C), and PMA. In cells infected with VACV lacking gene B14R (vDeltaB14) there was a higher level of phosphorylated IkappaBalpha but a similar level of IkappaBalpha compared to cells infected with control viruses expressing B14, suggesting B14 affects IKK activity. Direct evidence for this was obtained by showing that B14 co-purified and co-precipitated with the endogenous IKK complex from human and mouse cells and inhibited IKK complex enzymatic activity. Notably, the interaction between B14 and the IKK complex required IKKbeta but not IKKalpha, suggesting the interaction occurs via IKKbeta. B14 inhibited NF-kappaB activation induced by overexpression of IKKalpha, IKKbeta, and a constitutively active mutant of IKKalpha, S176/180E, but did not inhibit a comparable mutant of IKKbeta, S177/181E. This suggested that phosphorylation of these serine residues in the activation loop of IKKbeta is targeted by B14, and this was confirmed using Ab specific for phospho-IKKbeta. 
PMID:18272576|DOI:10.1128/JVI.02438-07|PMCID:2292987	Martin-Hernandez AM, Baulcombe DC	J Virol. 82(8):4064-71	2008	Tobacco rattle virus 16-kilodalton protein encodes a suppressor of RNA silencing that allows transient viral entry in meristems. 	RNA silencing is a host defense mechanism that limits the accumulation and spread of viruses in infected plants. Correspondingly, plant viruses encode suppressors of silencing. In the positive-strand RNA virus Tobacco rattle virus (TRV), the suppressor of silencing is a 16-kDa (16K) protein encoded by RNA1. The suppressor action of the 16K protein is transient and weaker than that of the P19 suppressor, encoded by tomato bushy stunt virus. Mutant TRV that does not produce its suppressor, unlike other suppressor-defective viruses, is competent to accumulate and spread systemically in the infected plant. However, this mutant virus does not exhibit the transient invasion of the meristem that is characteristic of the wild-type virus. Based on this analysis, we propose that the 16K suppressor of silencing allows TRV to transiently invade the meristem. Our data are consistent with a mechanism of long-term meristem virus exclusion that is dependent on a transient invasion of the meristem early in the infection cycle. This novel mechanism of meristem exclusion may be associated with the phenomenon of recovery in virus-infected plants in which upper leaves have little or no virus and are immune to secondary infection by the same virus. 
PMID:18304670|DOI:10.1016/j.virusres.2008.01.006	Falk K, Batts WN, Kvellestad A, Kurath G, Wiik-Nielsen J, Winton JR	Virus Res. 133(2):218-27	2008	Molecular characterisation of Atlantic salmon paramyxovirus (ASPV): a novel paramyxovirus associated with proliferative gill inflammation. 	Atlantic salmon paramyxovirus (ASPV) was isolated in 1995 from gills of farmed Atlantic salmon suffering from proliferative gill inflammation. The complete genome sequence of ASPV was determined, revealing a genome 16,968 nucleotides in length consisting of six non-overlapping genes coding for the nucleo- (N), phospho- (P), matrix- (M), fusion- (F), haemagglutinin-neuraminidase- (HN) and large polymerase (L) proteins in the order 3'-N-P-M-F-HN-L-5'. The various conserved features related to virus replication found in most paramyxoviruses were also found in ASPV. These include: conserved and complementary leader and trailer sequences, tri-nucleotide intergenic regions and highly conserved transcription start and stop signal sequences. The P gene expression strategy of ASPV was like that of the respiro-, morbilli- and henipaviruses, which express the P and C proteins from the primary transcript and edit a portion of the mRNA to encode V and W proteins. Sequence similarities among various features related to virus replication, pairwise comparisons of all deduced ASPV protein sequences with homologous regions from other members of the family Paramyxoviridae, and phylogenetic analyses of these amino acid sequences suggested that ASPV was a novel member of the sub-family Paramyxovirinae, most closely related to the respiroviruses. 
PMID:18385239|DOI:10.1128/JVI.02497-07|PMCID:2395207	Abaitua F, O'Hare P	J Virol. 82(11):5234-44	2008	Identification of a highly conserved, functional nuclear localization signal within the N-terminal region of herpes simplex virus type 1 VP1-2 tegument protein. 	VP1-2 is a large structural protein assembled into the tegument compartment of the virion, conserved across the herpesviridae, and essential for virus replication. In herpes simplex virus (HSV) and pseudorabies virus, VP1-2 is tightly associated with the capsid. Studies of its assembly and function remain incomplete, although recent data indicate that in HSV, VP1-2 is recruited onto capsids in the nucleus, with this being required for subsequent recruitment of additional structural proteins. Here we have developed an antibody to characterize VP1-2 localization, observing the protein in both cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments, frequently in clusters in both locations. Within the nucleus, a subpopulation of VP1-2 colocalized with VP26 and VP5, though VP1-2-positive foci devoid of these components were observed. We note a highly conserved basic motif adjacent to the previously identified N-terminal ubiquitin hydrolase domain (DUB). The DUB domain in isolation exhibited no specific localization, but when extended to include the adjacent motif, it efficiently accumulated in the nucleus. Transfer of the isolated motif to a test protein, beta-galactosidase, conferred specific nuclear localization. Substitution of a single amino acid within the motif abolished the nuclear localization function. Deletion of the motif from intact VP1-2 abrogated its nuclear localization. Moreover, in a functional assay examining the ability of VP1-2 to complement growth of a VP1-2-ve mutant, deletion of the nuclear localization signal abolished complementation. The nuclear localization signal may be involved in transport of VP1-2 early in infection or to late assembly sites within the nucleus or, considering the potential existence of VP1-2 cleavage products, in selective localization of subdomains to different compartments. 
PMID:18389079|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000007|PMCID:2279259	Barr SD, Smiley JR, Bushman FD	PLoS Pathog. 4(2):e1000007	2008	The interferon response inhibits HIV particle production by induction of TRIM22. 	Treatment of human cells with Type 1 interferons restricts HIV replication. Here we report that the tripartite motif protein TRIM22 is a key mediator. We used transcriptional profiling to identify cellular genes that were induced by interferon treatment and identified TRIM22 as one of the most strongly up-regulated genes. We confirmed, as in previous studies, that TRIM22 over-expression inhibited HIV replication. To assess the role of TRIM22 expressed under natural inducing conditions, we compared the effects of interferon in cells depleted for TRIM22 using RNAi and found that HIV particle release was significantly increased in the knockdown, implying that TRIM22 acts as a natural antiviral effector. Further studies showed that TRIM22 inhibited budding of virus-like particles containing Gag only, indicating that Gag was the target of TRIM22. TRIM22 did not block the release of MLV or EIAV Gag particles. Inhibition was associated with diffuse cytoplasmic staining of HIV Gag rather than accumulation at the plasma membrane, suggesting TRIM22 disrupts proper trafficking. Mutational analyses of TRIM22 showed that the catalytic amino acids Cys15 and Cys18 of the RING domain are required for TRIM22 antiviral activity. These data disclose a pathway by which Type 1 interferons obstruct HIV replication. 
PMID:1840711	Meyers G, Wirblich C, Thiel HJ	Virology. 184(2):664-76	1991	Rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus--molecular cloning and nucleotide sequencing of a calicivirus genome. 	The RNA genome of rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) was molecularly cloned. The 5' terminal sequence of the genomic RNA was determined after PCR amplification of a G-tailed first strand cDNA template. The cloned cDNA allowed determination of the first complete caliciviral sequence encompassing 7437 nucleotides without poly(A) tail. The RHDV genome contains one long open reading frame of 2344 codons which in the 5' region encodes the nonstructural proteins. Sequence comparison studies revealed significant homology between nonstructural proteins of the feline calicivirus (FCV) and RHDV. In analogy to FCV the deduced RHDV amino acid sequence contains a picornavirus 2C-like sequence, a hypothesized cysteine protease motif, and the conserved polymerase residues GDD. For the protein region containing the GDD motif, alignments of sequences from different viruses including the putative caliciviruses hepatitis E virus and Norwalk virus were performed; concerning the classification of the latter two viruses, a final judgement was not possible. Bacterial expression of sequences derived from the 3' part of the genomic RHDV RNA showed that this region codes for the viral capsid protein. 
PMID:1846644	Martin ME, Thomson BJ, Honess RW, Craxton MA, Gompels UA, Liu MY, Littler E, Arrand JR, Teo I, Jones MD	J Gen Virol. 72 ( Pt 1):157-68	1991	The genome of human herpesvirus 6: maps of unit-length and concatemeric genomes for nine restriction endonucleases. 	More than 50 fragments resulting from complete digestion of the DNA of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6, strain U1102) with BamHI, EcoRI, HindIII, KpnI, NruI, SalI or SmaI have been isolated as clones in M13, plasmid, cosmid and lambda vectors. Using these clones, maps have been constructed for the fragments produced by nine restriction enzymes from unit-length virus genomes and from their concatemeric precursors. The unit-length genome is a linear, double-stranded molecule of 161.5 kbp composed of a central segment of a largely unique sequence of 141 kbp (U) with a sequence of 10 kbp duplicated in the same orientation at both 'left' and 'right' genomic termini (i.e. 'left' and 'right' copies of the direct repeat; DRL and DRR). Adopting as standard an orientation in which the major capsid protein gene is 'left' of the gene for alkaline exonuclease, then the 'right' genome termini and DRL. U junctions occur close to or within repetitive (GGGTTA)n sequences. Repetitions of short sequence motifs are present in at least two other regions of the genome. One of these regions consists of a simple repeat (TC/G) of approximately 1.5 kbp in length and is unstable as clones in bacterial vectors. The second region is stably maintained in such vectors and consists of a tandem array of at least 25 copies of a 110 bp sequence containing a single KpnI site. Comparisons of fragments arising from unit-length DNA with those from virus DNA from the nuclei of infected cells have shown that the concatemeric junctions in intracellular DNA contain head-to-tail dimers of the terminal duplications (i.e. ...U1.DRR1.DRL2.U2...). The gross structure established here for the genome from the U1102 isolate of HHV-6 resembles closely that suggested by Pellett and his colleagues for the Z29 isolate and differs from that of the five previously characterized human herpesviruses. This structure of HHV-6 DNA bears a superficial resemblance to that proposed for DNA from channel catfish virus and equine cytomegalovirus. 
PMID:18471851|DOI:10.1016/j.virol.2008.03.026	Menon SK, Maaty WS, Corn GJ, Kwok SC, Eilers BJ, Kraft P, Gillitzer E, Young MJ, Bothner B, Lawrence CM	Virology. 376(2):270-8	2008	Cysteine usage in Sulfolobus spindle-shaped virus 1 and extension to hyperthermophilic viruses in general. 	Fuselloviridae are ubiquitous crenarchaeal viruses found in high-temperature acidic hot springs worldwide. The type virus, Sulfolobus spindle-shaped virus 1 (SSV1), has a double-stranded DNA genome that contains 34 open reading frames (ORFs). Fuselloviral genomes show little similarity to other organisms, generally precluding functional predictions. However, tertiary protein structure can provide insight into protein function. We have thus undertaken a systematic investigation of the SSV1 proteome and report here on the F112 gene product. Biochemical, proteomic and structural studies reveal a monomeric intracellular protein that adopts a winged helix DNA binding fold. Notably, the structure contains an intrachain disulfide bond, prompting analysis of cysteine usage in this and other hyperthermophilic viral genomes. The analysis supports a general abundance of disulfide bonds in the intracellular proteins of hyperthermophilic viruses, and reveals decreased cysteine content in the membrane proteins of hyperthermophilic viruses infecting Sulfolobales. The evolutionary implications of the SSV1 distribution are discussed. 
PMID:18516301|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000077|PMCID:2386556	Bao X, Liu T, Shan Y, Li K, Garofalo RP, Casola A	PLoS Pathog. 4(5):e1000077	2008	Human metapneumovirus glycoprotein G inhibits innate immune responses. 	Human metapneumovirus (hMPV) is a leading cause of acute respiratory tract infection in infants, as well as in the elderly and immunocompromised patients. No effective treatment or vaccine for hMPV is currently available. A recombinant hMPV lacking the G protein (rhMPV-Delta G) was recently developed as a potential vaccine candidate and shown to be attenuated in the respiratory tract of a rodent model of infection. The mechanism of its attenuation, as well as the role of G protein in modulation of hMPV-induced cellular responses in vitro, as well as in vivo, is currently unknown. In this study, we found that rhMPV-Delta G-infected airway epithelial cells produced higher levels of chemokines and type I interferon (IFN) compared to cells infected with rhMPV-WT. Infection of airway epithelial cells with rhMPV-Delta G enhanced activation of transcription factors belonging to the nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB and interferon regulatory factor (IRF) families, as revealed by increased nuclear translocation and/or phosphorylation of these transcription factors. Compared to rhMPV-WT, rhMPV-Delta G also increased IRF- and NF-kappaB-dependent gene transcription, which was reversely inhibited by G protein expression. Since RNA helicases have been shown to play a fundamental role in initiating viral-induced cellular signaling, we investigated whether retinoic induced gene (RIG)-I was the target of G protein inhibitory activity. We found that indeed G protein associated with RIG-I and inhibited RIG-I-dependent gene transcription, identifying an important mechanism by which hMPV affects innate immune responses. This is the first study investigating the role of hMPV G protein in cellular signaling and identifies G as an important virulence factor, as it inhibits the production of important immune and antiviral mediators by targeting RIG-I, a major intracellular viral RNA sensor. 
PMID:18533018|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-5-70|PMCID:2430953	Fiorini S, Ooka T	Virol J. 5:70	2008	Secretion of Epstein-Barr virus-encoded BARF1 oncoprotein from latently infected B cells. 	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) encodes two oncogenes, LMP1(Latent Membrane Protein-1) and BARF1 (BamH1-A Reading Frame-1). LMP1 belongs to latent gene family and BARF1 is considered so far as one of early gene family. However BARF1 oncogene was expressed highly in Nasopharyngeal (NPC) and gastric (GC) carcinoma as a type II latency, and in EBV-positive Akata cell and primary epithelial cell infected in vitro by EBV as type I latency. Its expression was also reported in Burkitt's lymphoma's biopsy frequent in Malawi in Africa as well as in nasal NK/T-cell lymphoma. We recently observed a massive secretion of BARF1 protein in serum and saliva of NPC patients. NPC-derived c666-1 epithelial cells also expressed and secreted BARF1 protein without other lytic genes expression. We asked whether this oncogene belongs to latent gene family. To investigate, we examined its transcriptional and translational expression in IB4 and Akata B cells where both cell lines belong to latent cell family. Transcriptional expression was analyzed by RT-PCR. As BARF1 protein is one of secreted proteins, its translational expression was analyzed by immunoblot after concentration of culture medium. Secreted BARF1 protein was futher purified by concanavalin A affinity column. BARF1 was transcribed in both EBV-positive AKATA and IB4 cells, and BARF1 protein was secreted from these latently infected human B cells. Its secretion does not depend EBV genome form in infected cells. Both episomal and integrated form of EBV genome were capable of expressing BARF1 gene. These results suggests that BARF1 is expressed in latent stage and increases its expression during lytic stage. 
PMID:18559942|DOI:10.1099/vir.0.2008/000448-0|PMCID:2885020	Higgs MR, Preston VG, Stow ND	J Gen Virol. 89(Pt 7):1709-15	2008	The UL15 protein of herpes simplex virus type 1 is necessary for the localization of the UL28 and UL33 proteins to viral DNA replication centres. 	The UL15, UL28 and UL33 proteins of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) are thought to comprise a terminase complex responsible for cleavage and packaging of the viral genome into pre-assembled capsids. Immunofluorescence studies confirmed that shortly after infection with wild-type HSV-1 these three proteins localize to viral DNA replication compartments within the nucleus, identified by the presence of the single-stranded DNA-binding protein, ICP8. In cells infected with either UL28- or UL33-null mutants, the other two terminase proteins also co-localized with ICP8. In contrast, neither UL28 nor UL33 was detectable in replication compartments following infection with a UL15-null mutant, although Western blot analysis showed they were present in normal amounts in the infected cells. Provision of UL15 in a complementing cell line restored the ability of all three proteins to localize to replication compartments. These data indicate that UL15 plays a key role in localizing the terminase complex to DNA replication compartments, and that it can interact independently with UL28 and UL33. 
PMID:1856689	Rott ME, Tremaine JH, Rochon DM	J Gen Virol. 72 ( Pt 7):1505-14	1991	Nucleotide sequence of tomato ringspot virus RNA-2. 	The sequence of tomato ringspot virus (TomRSV) RNA-2 has been determined. It is 7273 nucleotides in length excluding the 3' poly(A) tail and contains a single long open reading frame (ORF) of 5646 nucleotides in the positive sense beginning at position 78 and terminating at position 5723. A second in-frame AUG at position 441 is in a more favourable context for initiation of translation and may act as a site for initiation of translation. The TomRSV RNA-2 3' noncoding region is 1550 nucleotides in length. The coat protein is located in the C-terminal region of the large polypeptide and shows significant but limited amino acid sequence similarity to the putative coat proteins of the nepoviruses tomato black ring (TBRV), Hungarian grapevine chrome mosaic (GCMV) and grapevine fanleaf (GFLV). Comparisons of the coding and non-coding regions of TomRSV RNA-2 and the RNA components of TBRV, GCMV, GFLV and the comovirus cowpea mosaic virus revealed significant similarity for over 300 amino acids between the coding region immediately to the N-terminal side of the putative coat proteins of TomRSV and GFLV; very little similarity could be detected among the non-coding regions of TomRSV and any of these viruses. 
PMID:18593332|DOI:10.1089/jir.2007.0113|PMCID:2987269	Mann BA, Huang JH, Li P, Chang HC, Slee RB, O'Sullivan A, Anita M, Yeh N, Klemsz MJ, Brutkiewicz RR, Blum JS, Kaplan MH	J Interferon Cytokine Res. 28(6):367-80	2008	Vaccinia virus blocks Stat1-dependent and Stat1-independent gene expression induced by type I and type II interferons. 	Blocking the function of Stat (signal transducer and activator of transcription) proteins, which are critical for antiviral responses, has evolved as a common mechanism for pathogen immune evasion. The poxvirus-encoded phosphatase H1 is critical for viral replication, and may play an additional role in the evasion of host defense by dephosphorylating Stat1 and blocking interferon (IFN)-stimulated innate immune responses. Vaccinia virus (VACV) H1 can inhibit the phosphorylation of the transcription factor Stat1 after IFN-gamma stimulation of epithelial cells, greatly attenuating IFN-induced biological functions. In this study, we demonstrate that VACV infection is capable of inhibiting the phosphorylation of Stat1 and Stat2 after stimulation of fibroblasts or bone marrow-derived macrophages with either type I or type II IFNs, but did not inhibit the activation of Stat3 or Stat5 in either cell type. By using recombinant proteins for in vitro assays, we observe that variola virus H1 is more active than VACV H1, although it has similar selectivity for Stat targets. Differential effects of VACV infection were observed on the induction of IFN-stimulated genes, with complete inhibition of some genes by VACV infection, while others were less affected. Despite the IFN-gamma-induced expression of some genes in VACV-infected cells, IFN-gamma was unable to rescue the VACV-mediated inhibition of MHC class II antigen presentation. Moreover, VACV infection can affect the IFN-induced expression of Stat1-dependent and Stat1-independent genes, suggesting that the virus may target additional IFN-activated pathways. Thus, VACV targets multiple signaling pathways in the evasion of antiviral immune responses. 
PMID:18598718|DOI:10.1016/j.jviromet.2008.06.003	Wang Y, Kleespies RG, Ramle MB, Jehle JA	J Virol Methods. 152(1-2):106-8	2008	Sequencing of the large dsDNA genome of Oryctes rhinoceros nudivirus using multiple displacement amplification of nanogram amounts of virus DNA. 	The genomic sequence analysis of many large dsDNA viruses is hampered by the lack of enough sample materials. Here, we report a whole genome amplification of the Oryctes rhinoceros nudivirus (OrNV) isolate Ma07 starting from as few as about 10 ng of purified viral DNA by application of phi29 DNA polymerase- and exonuclease-resistant random hexamer-based multiple displacement amplification (MDA) method. About 60 microg of high molecular weight DNA with fragment sizes of up to 25 kbp was amplified. A genomic DNA clone library was generated using the product DNA. After 8-fold sequencing coverage, the 127,615 bp of OrNV whole genome was sequenced successfully. The results demonstrate that the MDA-based whole genome amplification enables rapid access to genomic information from exiguous virus samples. 
PMID:18604270|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000096|PMCID:2434199	Guerra S, Caceres A, Knobeloch KP, Horak I, Esteban M	PLoS Pathog. 4(7):e1000096	2008	Vaccinia virus E3 protein prevents the antiviral action of ISG15. 	The ubiquitin-like modifier ISG15 is one of the most predominant proteins induced by type I interferons (IFN). In this study, murine embryo fibroblast (MEFs) and mice lacking the gene were used to demonstrate a novel role of ISG15 as a host defense molecule against vaccinia virus (VACV) infection. In MEFs, the growth of replication competent Western Reserve (WR) VACV strain was affected by the absence of ISG15, but in addition, virus lacking E3 protein (VVDeltaE3L) that is unable to grow in ISG15+/+ cells replicated in ISG15-deficient cells. Inhibiting ISG15 with siRNA or promoting its expression in ISG15-/- cells with a lentivirus vector showed that VACV replication was controlled by ISG15. Immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that E3 binds ISG15 through its C-terminal domain. The VACV antiviral action of ISG15 and its interaction with E3 are events independent of PKR (double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase). In mice lacking ISG15, infection with VVDeltaE3L caused significant disease and mortality, an effect not observed in VVDeltaE3L-infected ISG15+/+ mice. Pathogenesis in ISG15-deficient mice infected with VVDeltaE3L or with an E3L deletion mutant virus lacking the C-terminal domain triggered an enhanced inflammatory response in the lungs compared with ISG15+/+-infected mice. These findings showed an anti-VACV function of ISG15, with the virus E3 protein suppressing the action of the ISG15 antiviral factor. 
PMID:18704168|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000128|PMCID:2494871	Graham SC, Bahar MW, Cooray S, Chen RA, Whalen DM, Abrescia NG, Alderton D, Owens RJ, Stuart DI, Smith GL, Grimes JM	PLoS Pathog. 4(8):e1000128	2008	Vaccinia virus proteins A52 and B14 Share a Bcl-2-like fold but have evolved to inhibit NF-kappaB rather than apoptosis. 	Vaccinia virus (VACV), the prototype poxvirus, encodes numerous proteins that modulate the host response to infection. Two such proteins, B14 and A52, act inside infected cells to inhibit activation of NF-kappaB, thereby blocking the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. We have solved the crystal structures of A52 and B14 at 1.9 A and 2.7 A resolution, respectively. Strikingly, both these proteins adopt a Bcl-2-like fold despite sharing no significant sequence similarity with other viral or cellular Bcl-2-like proteins. Unlike cellular and viral Bcl-2-like proteins described previously, A52 and B14 lack a surface groove for binding BH3 peptides from pro-apoptotic Bcl-2-like proteins and they do not modulate apoptosis. Structure-based phylogenetic analysis of 32 cellular and viral Bcl-2-like protein structures reveals that A52 and B14 are more closely related to each other and to VACV N1 and myxoma virus M11 than they are to other viral or cellular Bcl-2-like proteins. This suggests that a progenitor poxvirus acquired a gene encoding a Bcl-2-like protein and, over the course of evolution, gene duplication events have allowed the virus to exploit this Bcl-2 scaffold for interfering with distinct host signalling pathways. 
PMID:18802460|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000157|PMCID:2529400	Feng H, Dong X, Negaard A, Feng P	PLoS Pathog. 4(9):e1000157	2008	Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus K7 induces viral G protein-coupled receptor degradation and reduces its tumorigenicity. 	The Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) genome encodes a G protein-coupled receptor (vGPCR). vGPCR is a ligand-independent, constitutively active signaling molecule that promotes cell growth and proliferation; however, it is not clear how vGPCR is negatively regulated. We report here that the KSHV K7 small membrane protein interacts with vGPCR and induces its degradation, thereby dampening vGPCR signaling. K7 interaction with vGPCR is readily detected in transiently transfected human cells. Mutational analyses reveal that the K7 transmembrane domain is necessary and sufficient for this interaction. Biochemical and confocal microscopy studies indicate that K7 retains vGPCR in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and induces vGPCR proteasomeal degradation. Indeed, the knockdown of K7 by shRNA-mediated silencing increases vGPCR protein expression in BCBL-1 cells that are induced for KSHV lytic replication. Interestingly, K7 expression significantly reduces vGPCR tumorigenicity in nude mice. These findings define a viral factor that negatively regulates vGPCR protein expression and reveal a post-translational event that modulates GPCR-dependent transformation and tumorigenicity. 
PMID:18814255|DOI:10.1002/jmv.21286	Nagashima S, Kobayashi N, Ishino M, Alam MM, Ahmed MU, Paul SK, Ganesh B, Chawla-Sarkar M, Krishnan T, Naik TN, Wang YH	J Med Virol. 80(11):2023-33	2008	Whole genomic characterization of a human rotavirus strain B219 belonging to a novel group of the genus Rotavirus. 	Novel rotavirus strains B219 and ADRV-N derived from adult diarrheal cases in Bangladesh and China, respectively, are considered to belong to a novel rotavirus group (species) distinct from groups A, B, and C, by genetic analysis of five viral genes encoding VP6, VP7, NSP1, NSP2, and NSP3. In this study, the nucleotide sequences of the remaining six B219 gene segments encoding VP1, VP2, VP3, VP4, NSP4, and NSP5 were determined. The nucleotide sequences of the group B human rotavirus VP1 and VP3 genes were also determined in order to compare the whole genome of B219 with those of group A, B, and C rotavirus genomes. The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of all B219 gene segments showed considerable identity to the ADRV-N (strain J19) sequences (87.7-94.3% and 88.7-98.7%, respectively). In contrast, sequence identity to groups A-C rotavirus genes was less than 61%. However, functionally important domains and structural characteristics in VP1-VP4, NSP4, and NSP5, which are conserved in group A, B, or C rotaviruses, were also found in the deduced amino acid sequences of the B219 proteins. Hence, the basic structures of all B219 viral proteins are considered to be similar to those of the known rotavirus groups. 
PMID:19077320|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-5-148|PMCID:2621143	Unger B, Nichols RJ, Stanitsa ES, Traktman P	Virol J. 5:148	2008	Functional characterization of the vaccinia virus I5 protein. 	The I5L gene is one of approximately 90 genes that are conserved throughout the chordopoxvirus family, and hence are presumed to play vital roles in the poxvirus life cycle. Previous work had indicated that the VP13 protein, a component of the virion membrane, was encoded by the I5L gene, but no additional studies had been reported. Using a recombinant virus that encodes an I5 protein fused to a V5 epitope tag at the endogenous locus (vI5V5), we show here that the I5 protein is expressed as a post-replicative gene and that the approximately 9 kDa protein does not appear to be phosphorylated in vivo. I5 does not appear to traffic to any cellular organelle, but ultrastructural and biochemical analyses indicate that I5 is associated with the membranous components of assembling and mature virions. Intact virions can be labeled with anti-V5 antibody as assessed by immunoelectron microscopy, indicating that the C' terminus of the protein is exposed on the virion surface. Using a recombinant virus which encodes only a TET-regulated copy of the I5V5 gene (vDeltaindI5V5), or one in which the I5 locus has been deleted (vDeltaI5), we also show that I5 is dispensable for replication in tissue culture. Neither plaque size nor the viral yield produced in BSC40 cells or primary human fibroblasts are affected by the absence of I5 expression. 
PMID:19087357|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-5-151|PMCID:2614973	He F, Kwang J	Virol J. 5:151	2008	Identification and characterization of a new E3 ubiquitin ligase in white spot syndrome virus involved in virus latency. 	White spot syndrome virus (WSSV) is one major pathogen in shrimp aquaculture. WSSV ORF403 is predicted to encode a protein of 641 amino acids, which contains a C3H2C2 RING structure. In the presence of an E2 conjugating enzyme from shrimp, WSSV403 can ubiquitinate itself in vitro, indicating it can function as a viral E3 ligase. Besides, WSSV403 E3 ligase can be activated by a series of E2 variants. Based on RT-PCR and Real time PCR, we detected transcription of WSSV403 in the commercial specific-pathogen-free (SPF) shrimp, suggesting its role as a latency-associated gene. Identified in yeast two-hybrid screening and verified by pull-down assays, WSSV403 is able to bind to a shrimp protein phosphatase (PPs), which was characterized before as an interaction partner for another latent protein WSSV427. Our studies suggest that WSSV403 is a regulator of latency state of WSSV by virtue of its E3 ligase function. 
PMID:19118586|DOI:10.1016/j.virusres.2008.11.018	Sabanadzovic S, Valverde RA, Brown JK, Martin RR, Tzanetakis IE	Virus Res. 140(1-2):130-7	2009	Southern tomato virus: The link between the families Totiviridae and Partitiviridae. 	A dsRNA virus with a genome of 3.5 kb was isolated from field and greenhouse-grown tomato plants of different cultivars and geographic locations in North America. Cloning and sequencing of the viral genome showed the presence of two partially overlapping open reading frames (ORFs), and a genomic organization resembling members of the family Totiviridae that comprises fungal and protozoan viruses, but not plant viruses. The 5'-proximal ORF codes for a 377 amino acid-long protein of unknown function, whereas the product of ORF2 contains typical motifs of an RNA-dependant RNA-polymerase and is likely expressed by a +1 ribosomal frame shift. Despite the similarity in the genome organization with members of the family Totiviridae, this virus shared very limited sequence homology with known totiviruses or with other viruses. Repeated attempts to detect the presence of an endophytic fungus as the possible host of the virus failed, supporting its phytoviral nature. The virus was efficiently transmitted by seed but not mechanically and/or by grafting. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that this virus, for which the name Southern tomato virus (STV) is proposed, belongs to a partitivirus-like lineage and represents a species of a new taxon of plant viruses. 
PMID:19128510|DOI:10.1186/1742-4690-6-1|PMCID:2629459	Izumi T, Takaori-Kondo A, Shirakawa K, Higashitsuji H, Itoh K, Io K, Matsui M, Iwai K, Kondoh H, Sato T, Tomonaga M, Ikeda S, Akari H, Koyanagi Y, Fujita J, Uchiyama T	Retrovirology. 6:1	2009	MDM2 is a novel E3 ligase for HIV-1 Vif. 	The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Vif plays a crucial role in the viral life cycle by antagonizing a host restriction factor APOBEC3G (A3G). Vif interacts with A3G and induces its polyubiquitination and subsequent degradation via the formation of active ubiquitin ligase (E3) complex with Cullin5-ElonginB/C. Although Vif itself is also ubiquitinated and degraded rapidly in infected cells, precise roles and mechanisms of Vif ubiquitination are largely unknown. Here we report that MDM2, known as an E3 ligase for p53, is a novel E3 ligase for Vif and induces polyubiquitination and degradation of Vif. We also show the mechanisms by which MDM2 only targets Vif, but not A3G that binds to Vif. MDM2 reduces cellular Vif levels and reversely increases A3G levels, because the interaction between MDM2 and Vif precludes A3G from binding to Vif. Furthermore, we demonstrate that MDM2 negatively regulates HIV-1 replication in non-permissive target cells through Vif degradation. These data suggest that MDM2 is a regulator of HIV-1 replication and might be a novel therapeutic target for anti-HIV-1 drug. 
PMID:19157478|DOI:10.1016/j.virol.2008.12.021|PMCID:2663363	Neu U, Stehle T, Atwood WJ	Virology. 384(2):389-99	2009	The Polyomaviridae: Contributions of virus structure to our understanding of virus receptors and infectious entry. 	This review summarizes the field's major findings related to the characterization of polyomavirus structures and to the characterization of virus receptors and mechanisms of host cell invasion. The four members of the family that have received the most attention in this regard are the mouse polyomavirus (mPyV), the monkey polyomavirus SV40, and the two human polyomaviruses, JCV and BKV. The structures of both the mPyV and SV40 alone and in complex with receptor fragments have been solved to high resolution. The majority of polyomaviruses recognize terminal sialic acid in either an alpha2,3 linkage or an alpha2,6 linkage to the underlying galactose. Studies on virus structure, receptor utilization and mechanisms of entry have led to new insights into how these viruses interact in an active way with cells to ensure the nuclear delivery and expression of their genomes. Critical work on virus entry has led to the discovery of a pH neutral endocytic compartment that accepts cargo from caveolae and to novel roles for endoplasmic reticulum (ER) associated factors in virus uncoating and penetration of ER membranes. This review will summarize the major findings and compare and contrast the mechanisms used by these viruses to infect cells. 
PMID:19176628|DOI:10.1128/JVI.02455-08|PMCID:2655540	Morris SJ, Leppard KN	J Virol. 83(7):3049-58	2009	Adenovirus serotype 5 L4-22K and L4-33K proteins have distinct functions in regulating late gene expression. 	Adenoviruses express up to 20 distinct mRNAs from five major late transcription unit (MLTU) regions, L1 to L5, by differential splicing and polyadenylation of the primary transcript. MLTU expression is regulated at transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. The L4-33K protein acts as a splicing factor to upregulate several MLTU splice acceptor sites as the late phase progresses. The L4 region also expresses a 22K protein whose sequence is related to the sequence of L4-33K. L4-22K is shown here also to have an important role in regulating the pattern of MLTU gene expression. An adenovirus genome containing a stop codon in the L4-22K open reading frame expressed low levels of both structural and nonstructural late proteins compared to the wild-type (wt) adenovirus genome; a decrease in intermediate proteins, IVa2 and IX, was also observed. However, early protein synthesis and replication were unaffected by the absence of L4-22K. Intermediate and late protein expression was restored to wt levels by L4-22K expressed in trans but not by L4-33K. Increased MLTU promoter activity, resulting from stabilization of the transcriptional activator IVa2 by L4-22K, made a small contribution to this restoration of late gene expression. However, the principal effect of L4-22K was on the processing of MLTU RNA into specific cytoplasmic mRNA. L4-22K selectively increased expression of penton mRNA and protein, whereas splicing to create penton mRNA is known not to be increased by L4-33K. These results indicate that L4-22K plays a key role in the early-late switch in MLTU expression, additional to and distinct from the role of L4-33K. 
PMID:19240978|DOI:10.1007/s00705-009-0327-7	Liu S, Sivakumar S, Wang Z, Bonning BC, Miller WA	Arch Virol. 154(3):469-79	2009	The readthrough domain of pea enation mosaic virus coat protein is not essential for virus stability in the hemolymph of the pea aphid. 	A fraction of the coat protein (CP) subunits in virions of members of the family Luteoviridae contain a C-terminal extension called the readthrough domain (RTD). The RTD is necessary for persistent aphid transmission, but its role is unknown. It has been reported to be required for virion stability in the hemolymph. Here, we tested whether this was the case for pea enation mosaic virus (PEMV) virions in the pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) using RNA1Delta, a natural deletion mutant lacking the middle portion of the RTD ORF, and CPDeltaRTD, in which the entire RTD ORF was deleted. In infected plants, RNA1Delta virions were as abundant and stable as wild-type (WT) virions, while CPDeltaRTD virions were unstable. No RTD of any size was translated from artificial subgenomic mRNA of CPDeltaRTD or RNA1Delta in vitro. Thus, only the major CP was present in the mutant virions. Using real-time RT-PCR to detect virion RNA, no significant differences in the concentration or stability of WT and RNA1Delta virions were detected in the aphid hemolymph at much longer times than are necessary for virus transmission. Thus, the RTD is not necessary for stability of PEMV RNA in the aphid hemolymph, and it must play another role in aphid transmission. 
PMID:19321000|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-6-36|PMCID:2666655	Varsani A, Shepherd DN, Dent K, Monjane AL, Rybicki EP, Martin DP	Virol J. 6:36	2009	A highly divergent South African geminivirus species illuminates the ancient evolutionary history of this family. 	We have characterised a new highly divergent geminivirus species, Eragrostis curvula streak virus (ECSV), found infecting a hardy perennial South African wild grass. ECSV represents a new genus-level geminivirus lineage, and has a mixture of features normally associated with other specific geminivirus genera. Whereas the ECSV genome is predicted to express a replication associated protein (Rep) from an unspliced complementary strand transcript that is most similar to those of begomoviruses, curtoviruses and topocuviruses, its Rep also contains what is apparently a canonical retinoblastoma related protein interaction motif such as that found in mastreviruses. Similarly, while ECSV has the same unusual TAAGATTCC virion strand replication origin nonanucleotide found in another recently described divergent geminivirus, Beet curly top Iran virus (BCTIV), the rest of the transcription and replication origin is structurally more similar to those found in begomoviruses and curtoviruses than it is to those found in BCTIV and mastreviruses. ECSV also has what might be a homologue of the begomovirus transcription activator protein gene found in begomoviruses, a mastrevirus-like coat protein gene and two intergenic regions. Although it superficially resembles a chimaera of geminiviruses from different genera, the ECSV genome is not obviously recombinant, implying that the features it shares with other geminiviruses are those that were probably present within the last common ancestor of these viruses. In addition to inferring how the ancestral geminivirus genome may have looked, we use the discovery of ECSV to refine various hypotheses regarding the recombinant origins of the major geminivirus lineages. 
PMID:19325881|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000351|PMCID:2654722	Liu L, Westler WM, den Boon JA, Wang X, Diaz A, Steinberg HA, Ahlquist P	PLoS Pathog. 5(3):e1000351	2009	An amphipathic alpha-helix controls multiple roles of brome mosaic virus protein 1a in RNA replication complex assembly and function. 	Brome mosaic virus (BMV) protein 1a has multiple key roles in viral RNA replication. 1a localizes to perinuclear endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membranes as a peripheral membrane protein, induces ER membrane invaginations in which RNA replication complexes form, and recruits and stabilizes BMV 2a polymerase (2a(Pol)) and RNA replication templates at these sites to establish active replication complexes. During replication, 1a provides RNA capping, NTPase and possibly RNA helicase functions. Here we identify in BMV 1a an amphipathic alpha-helix, helix A, and use NMR analysis to define its structure and propensity to insert in hydrophobic membrane-mimicking micelles. We show that helix A is essential for efficient 1a-ER membrane association and normal perinuclear ER localization, and that deletion or mutation of helix A abolishes RNA replication. Strikingly, mutations in helix A give rise to two dramatically opposite 1a function phenotypes, implying that helix A acts as a molecular switch regulating the intricate balance between separable 1a functions. One class of helix A deletions and amino acid substitutions markedly inhibits 1a-membrane association and abolishes ER membrane invagination, viral RNA template recruitment, and replication, but doubles the 1a-mediated increase in 2a(Pol) accumulation. The second class of helix A mutations not only maintains efficient 1a-membrane association but also amplifies the number of 1a-induced membrane invaginations 5- to 8-fold and enhances viral RNA template recruitment, while failing to stimulate 2a(Pol) accumulation. The results provide new insights into the pathways of RNA replication complex assembly and show that helix A is critical for assembly and function of the viral RNA replication complex, including its central role in targeting replication components and controlling modes of 1a action. 
PMID:19730691|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000574|PMCID:2729927	Mangeat B, Gers-Huber G, Lehmann M, Zufferey M, Luban J, Piguet V	PLoS Pathog. 5(9):e1000574	2009	HIV-1 Vpu neutralizes the antiviral factor Tetherin/BST-2 by binding it and directing its beta-TrCP2-dependent degradation. 	Host cells impose a broad range of obstacles to the replication of retroviruses. Tetherin (also known as CD317, BST-2 or HM1.24) impedes viral release by retaining newly budded HIV-1 virions on the surface of cells. HIV-1 Vpu efficiently counteracts this restriction. Here, we show that HIV-1 Vpu induces the depletion of tetherin from cells. We demonstrate that this phenomenon correlates with the ability of Vpu to counteract the antiviral activity of both overexpressed and interferon-induced endogenous tetherin. In addition, we show that Vpu co-immunoprecipitates with tetherin and beta-TrCP in a tri-molecular complex. This interaction leads to Vpu-mediated proteasomal degradation of tetherin in a beta-TrCP2-dependent manner. Accordingly, in conditions where Vpu-beta-TrCP2-tetherin interplay was not operative, including cells stably knocked down for beta-TrCP2 expression or cells expressing a dominant negative form of beta-TrCP, the ability of Vpu to antagonize the antiviral activity of tetherin was severely impaired. Nevertheless, tetherin degradation did not account for the totality of Vpu-mediated counteraction against the antiviral factor, as binding of Vpu to tetherin was sufficient for a partial relief of the restriction. Finally, we show that the mechanism used by Vpu to induce tetherin depletion implicates the cellular ER-associated degradation (ERAD) pathway, which mediates the dislocation of ER membrane proteins into the cytosol for subsequent proteasomal degradation. In conclusion, we show that Vpu interacts with tetherin to direct its beta-TrCP2-dependent proteasomal degradation, thereby alleviating the blockade to the release of infectious virions. Identification of tetherin binding to Vpu provides a potential novel target for the development of drugs aimed at inhibiting HIV-1 replication. 
PMID:19759131|DOI:10.1128/JVI.01653-09|PMCID:2786748	Yang Z, Moss B	J Virol. 83(23):12018-26	2009	Interaction of the vaccinia virus RNA polymerase-associated 94-kilodalton protein with the early transcription factor. 	A multisubunit RNA polymerase (RPO) encoded by vaccinia virus (VACV), in conjunction with specific factors, transcribes early, intermediate, and late viral genes. However, an additional virus-encoded polypeptide referred to as the RPO-associated protein of 94 kDa (RAP94) is tightly bound to the RPO for the transcription of early genes. Unlike the eight RPO core subunits, RAP94 is synthesized exclusively at late times after infection. Furthermore, RAP94 is necessary for the packaging of RPO and other components needed for early transcription in assembling virus particles. The direct association of RAP94 with NPH I, a DNA-dependent ATPase required for transcription termination, and the multifunctional poly(A) polymerase small subunit/2'-O-methyltransferase/elongation factor was previously demonstrated. That RAP94 provides a structural and functional link between the core RPO and the VACV early transcription factor (VETF) has been suspected but not previously demonstrated. Using VACV recombinants that constitutively or inducibly express VETF subunits and RAP94 with affinity tags, we showed that (i) VETF associates only with RPO containing RAP94 in vivo and in vitro, (ii) the association of RAP94 with VETF requires both subunits of the latter, (iii) neither viral DNA nor other virus-encoded late proteins are required for the interaction of RAP94 with VETF and core RPO subunits, (iv) different domains of RAP94 bind VETF and core subunits of RPO, and (v) NPH I and VETF bind independently and possibly simultaneously to the N-terminal region of RAP94. Thus, RAP94 provides the bridge between the RPO and proteins needed for transcription initiation, elongation, and termination. 
PMID:19761605|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-6-144|PMCID:2754452	Sabath N, Price N, Graur D	Virol J. 6:144	2009	A potentially novel overlapping gene in the genomes of Israeli acute paralysis virus and its relatives. 	The Israeli acute paralysis virus (IAPV) is a honeybee-infecting virus that was found to be associated with colony collapse disorder. The IAPV genome contains two genes encoding a structural and a nonstructural polyprotein. We applied a recently developed method for the estimation of selection in overlapping genes to detect purifying selection and, hence, functionality. We provide evolutionary evidence for the existence of a functional overlapping gene, which is translated in the +1 reading frame of the structural polyprotein gene. Conserved orthologs of this putative gene, which we provisionally call pog (predicted overlapping gene), were also found in the genomes of a monophyletic clade of dicistroviruses that includes IAPV, acute bee paralysis virus, Kashmir bee virus, and Solenopsis invicta (red imported fire ant) virus 1. 
PMID:19793804|DOI:10.1128/JVI.01175-09|PMCID:2786768	Ashiru O, Bennett NJ, Boyle LH, Thomas M, Trowsdale J, Wills MR	J Virol. 83(23):12345-54	2009	NKG2D ligand MICA is retained in the cis-Golgi apparatus by human cytomegalovirus protein UL142. 	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) evades T-cell recognition by down-regulating expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II molecules on the surfaces of infected cells. Contrary to the "missing-self" hypothesis, HCMV-infected cells are refractory to lysis by natural killer (NK) cells. Inhibition of NK cell function is mediated by a number of HCMV immune evasion molecules, which operate by delivering inhibitory signals to NK cells and preventing engagement of activating ligands. One such molecule is UL142, which is an MHC class I-related glycoprotein encoded by clinical isolates and low-passage-number strains of HCMV. UL142 is known to down-modulate surface expression of MHC class I-related chain A (MICA), which is a ligand of the activating NK receptor NKG2D. However, the mechanism by which UL142 interferes with MICA is unknown. Here, we show that UL142 localizes predominantly to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and cis-Golgi apparatus. The transmembrane domain of UL142 mediates its ER localization, while we propose that the UL142 luminal domain is involved in its cis-Golgi localization. We also confirm that UL142 down-modulates surface expression of full-length MICA alleles while having no effect on the truncated allele MICA*008. However, we demonstrate for the first time that UL142 retains full-length MICA alleles in the cis-Golgi apparatus. In addition, we propose that UL142 interacts with nascent MICA en route to the cell surface but not mature MICA at the cell surface. Our data also demonstrate that the UL142 luminal and transmembrane domains are involved in recognition and intracellular sequestration of full-length MICA alleles. 
PMID:19816653|DOI:10.1007/s00705-009-0515-5	Niu S, Wang B, Guo X, Yu J, Wang X, Xu K, Zhai Y, Wang J, Liu Z	Arch Virol. 154(11):1775-83	2009	Identification of two RNA silencing suppressors from banana bunchy top virus. 	In order to suppress RNA silencing, many plant and some animal viruses encode RNA silencing suppressors to achieve infection. In this study, we report that B3 and B4, encoded by DNA3 and DNA4 of banana bunchy top virus (BBTV), exhibit RNA silencing suppression activity. B3 and B4 were able to increase the transient expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) and dramatically enhanced the pathogenicity of potato virus X (PVX) in Nicotiana benthamiana. B4 was able to reverse established gene silencing on an inoculated leaf or on an upper leaf. B3, however, was only active during infection of an inoculated leaf. Furthermore, B4, but not B3, was able to enhance GFP expression in the transgenic N. benthamiana line 16c. In conclusion, B3 and B4 are the RNA silencing suppressors of BBTV, and they may act at different steps in the RNA silencing pathways. 
PMID:19828620|DOI:10.1128/JVI.01830-09|PMCID:2786845	Chiba S, Salaipeth L, Lin YH, Sasaki A, Kanematsu S, Suzuki N	J Virol. 83(24):12801-12	2009	A novel bipartite double-stranded RNA Mycovirus from the white root rot Fungus Rosellinia necatrix: molecular and biological characterization, taxonomic considerations, and potential for biological control. 	White root rot, caused by the ascomycete Rosellinia necatrix, is a devastating disease worldwide, particularly in fruit trees in Japan. Here we report on the biological and molecular properties of a novel bipartite double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) virus encompassing dsRNA-1 (8,931 bp) and dsRNA-2 (7,180 bp), which was isolated from a field strain of R. necatrix, W779. Besides the strictly conserved 5' (24 nt) and 3' (8 nt) terminal sequences, both segments show high levels of sequence similarity in the long 5' untranslated region of approximately 1.6 kbp. dsRNA-1 and -2 each possess two open reading frames (ORFs) named ORF1 to -4. Although the protein encoded by 3'-proximal ORF2 on dsRNA-1 shows sequence identities of 22 to 32% with RNA-dependent RNA polymerases from members of the families Totiviridae and Chrysoviridae, the remaining three virus-encoded proteins lack sequence similarities with any reported mycovirus proteins. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the W779 virus belongs to a separate clade distinct from those of other known mycoviruses. Purified virions approximately 50 nm in diameter consisted of dsRNA-1 and -2 and a single major capsid protein of 135 kDa, which was shown by peptide mass fingerprinting to be encoded by dsRNA-1 ORF1. We developed a transfection protocol using purified virions to show that the virus was responsible for reduction of virulence and mycelial growth in several host strains. These combined results indicate that the W779 virus is a novel bipartite dsRNA virus with potential for biological control (virocontrol), named Rosellinia necatrix megabirnavirus 1 (RnMBV1), that possibly belongs to a new virus family. 
PMID:19860872|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-6-174|PMCID:2771014	Imelli N, Ruzsics Z, Puntener D, Gastaldelli M, Greber UF	Virol J. 6:174	2009	Genetic reconstitution of the human adenovirus type 2 temperature-sensitive 1 mutant defective in endosomal escape. 	Human adenoviruses infect the upper and lower respiratory tracts, the urinary and digestive tracts, lymphoid systems and heart, and give rise to epidemic conjunctivitis. More than 51 human serotypes have been identified to-date, and classified into 6 species A-F. The species C adenoviruses Ad2 and Ad5 (Ad2/5) cause upper and lower respiratory disease, but how viral structure relates to the selection of particular infectious uptake pathways is not known. An adenovirus mutant, Ad2-ts1 had been isolated upon chemical mutagenesis in the past, and shown to have unprocessed capsid proteins. Ad2-ts1 fails to package the viral protease L3/p23, and Ad2-ts1 virions do not efficiently escape from endosomes. It had been suggested that the C22187T point mutation leading to the substitution of the conserved proline 137 to leucine (P137L) in the L3/p23 protease was at least in part responsible for this phenotype. To clarify if the C22187T mutation is necessary and sufficient for the Ad2-ts1 phenotype, we sequenced the genes encoding the structural proteins of Ad2-ts1, and confirmed that the Ad2-ts1 DNA carries the point mutation C22187T. Introduction of C22187T to the wild-type Ad2 genome in a bacterial artificial chromosome (Ad2-BAC) gave Ad2-BAC46 virions with the full Ad2-ts1 phenotype. Reversion of Ad2-BAC46 gave wild-type Ad2 particles indicating that P137L is necessary and sufficient for the Ad2-ts1 phenotype. The kinetics of Ad2-ts1 uptake into cells were comparable to Ad2 suggesting similar endocytic uptake mechanisms. Surprisingly, infectious Ad2 or Ad5 but not Ad2-ts1 uptake required CALM (clathrin assembly lymphoid myeloid protein), which controls clathrin-mediated endocytosis and membrane transport between endosomes and the trans-Golgi-network. The data show that no other mutations than P137L in the viral protease are necessary to give rise to particles that are defective in capsid processing and endosomal escape. This provides a basis for genetic analyses of distinct host requirements for Ad endocytosis and escape from endosomes. 
PMID:20097398|DOI:10.1016/j.virol.2009.12.027	Day JM, Zsak L	Virology. 399(1):59-64	2010	Determination and analysis of the full-length chicken parvovirus genome. 	Viral enteric disease in poultry is an ongoing problem in many parts of the world. Many enteric viruses have been identified in turkeys and chickens, including avian astroviruses, rotaviruses, reoviruses, and coronaviruses. Through the application of a molecular screening method targeting particle-associated nucleic acid (PAN), we recently described the detection and partial characterization of a novel enteric parvovirus in chickens. Subsequent surveys of intestinal homogenates from turkeys and chickens in the United States revealed widespread occurrence of parvovirus in poultry. Here we report the first full genome sequence of a novel chicken parvovirus, ChPV ABU-P1. ChPV ABU-P1 genome organization, predicted amino acid sequence, and phylogenetic relationships with other described parvoviruses are discussed. 
PMID:20126445|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000741|PMCID:2813275	Schmitz A, Schwarz A, Foss M, Zhou L, Rabe B, Hoellenriegel J, Stoeber M, Pante N, Kann M	PLoS Pathog. 6(1):e1000741	2010	Nucleoporin 153 arrests the nuclear import of hepatitis B virus capsids in the nuclear basket. 	Virtually all DNA viruses including hepatitis B viruses (HBV) replicate their genome inside the nucleus. In non-dividing cells, the genome has to pass through the nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) by the aid of nuclear transport receptors as e.g. importin beta (karyopherin). Most viruses release their genome in the cytoplasm or at the cytosolic face of the NPC, as the diameter of their capsids exceeds the size of the NPC. The DNA genome of HBV is derived from reverse transcription of an RNA pregenome. Genome maturation occurs in cytosolic capsids and progeny capsids can deliver the genome into the nucleus causing nuclear genome amplification. The karyophilic capsids are small enough to pass the NPC, but nuclear entry of capsids with an immature genome is halted in the nuclear basket on the nuclear side of the NPC, and the genome remains encapsidated. In contrast, capsids with a mature genome enter the basket and consequently liberate the genome. Investigating the difference between immature and mature capsids, we found that mature capsids had to disintegrate in order to leave the nuclear basket. The arrest of a karyophilic cargo at the nuclear pore is a rare phenomenon, which has been described for only very few cellular proteins participating in nuclear entry. We analyzed the interactions causing HBV capsid retention. By pull-down assays and partial siRNA depletion, we showed that HBV capsids directly interact with nucleoporin 153 (Nup153), an essential protein of the nuclear basket which participates in nuclear transport via importin beta. The binding sites of importin beta and capsids were shown to overlap but capsid binding was 150-fold stronger. In cellulo experiments using digitonin-permeabilized cells confirmed the interference between capsid binding and nuclear import by importin beta. Collectively, our findings describe a unique nuclear import strategy not only for viruses but for all karyophilic cargos. 
PMID:20195521|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000785|PMCID:2829069	Morgan GW, Hollinshead M, Ferguson BJ, Murphy BJ, Carpentier DC, Smith GL	PLoS Pathog. 6(2):e1000785	2010	Vaccinia protein F12 has structural similarity to kinesin light chain and contains a motor binding motif required for virion export. 	Vaccinia virus (VACV) uses microtubules for export of virions to the cell surface and this process requires the viral protein F12. Here we show that F12 has structural similarity to kinesin light chain (KLC), a subunit of the kinesin-1 motor that binds cargo. F12 and KLC share similar size, pI, hydropathy and cargo-binding tetratricopeptide repeats (TPRs). Moreover, molecular modeling of F12 TPRs upon the crystal structure of KLC2 TPRs showed a striking conservation of structure. We also identified multiple TPRs in VACV proteins E2 and A36. Data presented demonstrate that F12 is critical for recruitment of kinesin-1 to virions and that a conserved tryptophan and aspartic acid (WD) motif, which is conserved in the kinesin-1-binding sequence (KBS) of the neuronal protein calsyntenin/alcadein and several other cellular kinesin-1 binding proteins, is essential for kinesin-1 recruitment and virion transport. In contrast, mutation of WD motifs in protein A36 revealed they were not required for kinesin-1 recruitment or IEV transport. This report of a viral KLC-like protein containing a KBS that is conserved in several cellular proteins advances our understanding of how VACV recruits the kinesin motor to virions, and exemplifies how viruses use molecular mimicry of cellular components to their advantage. 
PMID:20230632|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-7-59|PMCID:2907574	Gonzalez JM, Esteban M	Virol J. 7:59	2010	A poxvirus Bcl-2-like gene family involved in regulation of host immune response: sequence similarity and evolutionary history. 	Poxviruses evade the immune system of the host through the action of viral encoded inhibitors that block various signalling pathways. The exact number of viral inhibitors is not yet known. Several members of the vaccinia virus A46 and N1 families, with a Bcl-2-like structure, are involved in the regulation of the host innate immune response where they act non-redundantly at different levels of the Toll-like receptor signalling pathway. N1 also maintains an anti-apoptotic effect by acting similarly to cellular Bcl-2 proteins. Whether there are related families that could have similar functions is the main subject of this investigation. We describe the sequence similarity existing among poxvirus A46, N1, N2 and C1 protein families, which share a common domain of approximately 110-140 amino acids at their C-termini that spans the entire N1 sequence. Secondary structure and fold recognition predictions suggest that this domain presents an all-alpha-helical fold compatible with the Bcl-2-like structures of vaccinia virus proteins N1, A52, B15 and K7. We propose that these protein families should be merged into a single one. We describe the phylogenetic distribution of this family and reconstruct its evolutionary history, which indicates an extensive gene gain in ancestral viruses and a further stabilization of its gene content. Based on the sequence/structure similarity, we propose that other members with unknown function, like vaccinia virus N2, C1, C6 and C16/B22, might have a similar role in the suppression of host immune response as A46, A52, B15 and K7, by antagonizing at different levels with the TLR signalling pathways. 
PMID:2024471	Feldmann H, Will C, Schikore M, Slenczka W, Klenk HD	Virology. 182(1):353-6	1991	Glycosylation and oligomerization of the spike protein of Marburg virus. 	The oligosaccharide side chains of the glycoprotein of Marburg virus (MW 170,000) have been analyzed by determining their sensitivity to enzymatic degradation and their reactivity with lectins. It was found that they consist of N- and O-glycans. Studies employing chemical cross-linking showed that the glycoprotein is present as a homotrimer in the viral envelope. 
PMID:20302896|DOI:10.1016/j.virusres.2010.03.004	Krupovic M, Cvirkaite-Krupovic V, Bamford DH	Virus Res. 151(1):97-101	2010	Protein A33 responsible for antibody-resistant spread of Vaccinia virus is homologous to C-type lectin-like proteins. 	Protein A33 is a type II membrane protein present in the outer envelope of extracellular as well as cell-associated Vaccinia virus particles. A33 has been implicated in mediating cell-to-cell virus spread in an antibody-resistant manner. Here, using state-of-the-art structure prediction methods and structural modeling, we show that A33 has most likely evolved from a C-type lectin-like protein. Comparison of the three-dimensional A33 model to the X-ray structures of distant cellular homologues revealed that A33 retained the key residues required for adopting the C-type lectin-like fold. Our results provide insights into the structure and origin of protein A33. 
PMID:20333243|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1000808|PMCID:2841620	Wodrich H, Henaff D, Jammart B, Segura-Morales C, Seelmeir S, Coux O, Ruzsics Z, Wiethoff CM, Kremer EJ	PLoS Pathog. 6(3):e1000808	2010	A capsid-encoded PPxY-motif facilitates adenovirus entry. 	Viruses use cellular machinery to enter and infect cells. In this study we address the cell entry mechanisms of nonenveloped adenoviruses (Ads). We show that protein VI, an internal capsid protein, is rapidly exposed after cell surface attachment and internalization and remains partially associated with the capsid during intracellular transport. We found that a PPxY motif within protein VI recruits Nedd4 E3 ubiquitin ligases to bind and ubiquitylate protein VI. We further show that this PPxY motif is involved in rapid, microtubule-dependent intracellular movement of protein VI. Ads with a mutated PPxY motif can efficiently escape endosomes but are defective in microtubule-dependent trafficking toward the nucleus. Likewise, depletion of Nedd4 ligases attenuates nuclear accumulation of incoming Ad particles and infection. Our data provide the first evidence that virus-encoded PPxY motifs are required during virus entry, which may be of significance for several other pathogens. 
PMID:2045793	Smith GL, Chan YS, Howard ST	J Gen Virol. 72 ( Pt 6):1349-76	1991	Nucleotide sequence of 42 kbp of vaccinia virus strain WR from near the right inverted terminal repeat. 	The nucleotide sequence of 42090 bp of vaccinia virus strain WR is presented. The sequence includes the SalI L, F, G and I fragments and starts near the centre of the HindIII A fragment and extends rightwards towards the genomic terminus, finishing approximately 0.5 kb internal of the inverted terminal repeat (ITR). Translation of this region has identified 65 open reading frames (ORFs) of greater than 65 amino acids in length. Fifty-one of these which do not extensively overlap other larger ORFs have been subjected to further analysis; the other 14 are termed minor ORFs. In the rightmost 28.7 kb, the genes are, with one exception, transcribed towards the genomic terminus, similar to the arrangement of genes at the left end of the virus genome. Internal of this region the genes are expressed off either DNA strand but still predominately rightwards. ORFs are tightly packed with few intergenic non-coding regions of greater than 250 bp. Protein sequence comparisons have established a remarkably high number of homologies with entries in existing protein databases. Of these, DNA ligase, thymidylate kinase, two serine-threonine protein kinases, two serine proteinase inhibitors (serpins), two interleukin-1 receptor homologous and a discontinuous ORF related to tumour necrosis factor receptor have been reported. Other homologies include lectins, profilin, 3 beta-hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase, superoxide dismutase, guanylate kinase, ankyrin and complement factor H. In addition, there are a number of polypeptides with predicted properties of membrane-associated, secretory or glyco-proteins. Twelve gene families are described here and elsewhere. There is considerable similarity between genes from the right and left end of the virus genome that may have arisen by terminal transposition events. Several differences from the corresponding region of vaccinia virus strain Copenhagen sequence are noted. Near the right terminus the sequences diverge completely, and internal of this there are multiple examples of deletion of short sequences (eight to 10 nucleotides) that lie within penta- or hexanucleotide direct repeats. 
PMID:20566344|DOI:10.1016/j.virusres.2010.05.016	Briddon RW, Heydarnejad J, Khosrowfar F, Massumi H, Martin DP, Varsani A	Virus Res. 152(1-2):169-75	2010	Turnip curly top virus, a highly divergent geminivirus infecting turnip in Iran. 	From 2006 onwards turnip crops in Fars province, Iran, have been noted with unusual leaf curling and vein swelling symptoms which are characteristic of the leafhopper-transmitted viruses of the genus Curtovirus (family Geminiviridae). Rolling circle amplification was used to clone viruses from five turnip isolates exhibiting leaf curl symptoms. Analysis of the sequences showed them to have &gt;93% sequence identity and to be distinct from all other geminiviruses previously characterised. Analysis of the sequence of this virus, for which we propose the name Turnip curly top virus (TCTV), showed it to have a genome arrangement in the complementary-sense similar to that of curtoviruses (consisting of four overlapping genes) but only two open reading frames in the virion-sense (the curtoviruses encode three). The complementary-sense genes are homologous to those of curtoviruses but show little sequence identity to their curtovirus homologs, with the exception of the product of the C4 open reading frame (ORF) which shows approximately 70.6% amino acid sequence identity to the C4 of the North American curtoviruses, Pepper curly top virus and Beet mild curly top virus. For curtoviruses the C4 protein is a symptom determinant, which likely explains the similarity of TCTV symptoms to those of curtoviruses. In the virion-sense the predicted product of the V2 ORF of TCTV shows no significant similarity with any proteins in the databases whereas the product of the V1 ORF (encoding the coat protein [CP] of geminiviruses) shows low levels of sequence identity to the CPs of curtoviruses. These findings show TCTV to be a highly divergent geminivirus with similarities to viruses of the genus curtovirus. The significance of these findings, particularly the taxonomic implications are discussed. 
PMID:20615244|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-7-148|PMCID:2909962	Lyle C, McCormick F	Virol J. 7:148	2010	Integrin alphavbeta5 is a primary receptor for adenovirus in CAR-negative cells. 	Viruses bind to specific cellular receptors in order to infect their hosts. The specific receptors a virus uses are important factors in determining host range, cellular tropism, and pathogenesis. For adenovirus, the existing model of entry requires two receptor interactions. First, the viral fiber protein binds Coxsackie and Adenovirus Receptor (CAR), its primary cellular receptor, which docks the virus to the cell surface. Next, viral penton base engages cellular integrins, coreceptors thought to be required exclusively for internalization and not contributing to binding. However, a number of studies reporting data which conflicts with this simple model have been published. These observations have led us to question the proposed two-step model for adenovirus infection. In this study we report that cells which express little to no CAR can be efficiently transduced by adenovirus. Using competition experiments between whole virus and soluble viral fiber protein or integrin blocking peptides, we show virus binding is not dependent on fiber binding to cells but rather on penton base binding cellular integrins. Further, we find that binding to low CAR expressing cells is inhibited specifically by a blocking antibody to integrin alphavbeta5, demonstrating that in these cells integrin alphavbeta5 and not CAR is required for adenovirus attachment. The binding mediated by integrin alphavbeta5 is extremely high affinity, in the picomolar range. Our data further challenges the model of adenovirus infection in which binding to primary receptor CAR is required in order for subsequent interactions between adenovirus and integrins to initiate viral entry. In low CAR cells, binding occurs through integrin alphavbeta5, a receptor previously thought to be used exclusively in internalization. We show for the first time that integrin alphavbeta5 can be used as an alternate binding receptor. 
PMID:20621673|DOI:10.1016/j.virusres.2010.05.013	Backstroem E, Kaufmann KB, Lan X, Akusjaervi G	Virus Res. 151(2):220-8	2010	Adenovirus L4-22K stimulates major late transcription by a mechanism requiring the intragenic late-specific transcription factor-binding  site. 	The adenovirus major late promoter (MLP) generates a primary transcript that undergoes a complex pattern of regulated alternative RNA splicing and polyadenylation events. The late-specific activation of the MLP requires binding of two infected-cell specific transcription factor complexes, DEF-A and DEF-B, to the so-called DE sequence located downstream of the MLP start site. Previous studies have shown that DEF-B is a homodimer of the viral IVa2 protein and suggested that DEF-A is a heterodimer of IVa2 and an unknown protein. Two proteins from the adenoviral L4 unit have been suggested as DEF-A candidates. Here we have examined L4-22K and L4-33K for possible DEF-A activity. We show that L4-22K stimulates transcription from the MLP in a DE sequence dependent manner both in vivo and in vitro, and that L4-22K binds to the DE sequence in vitro. Further, the position of the L4-22K DNA binding site in a promoter does not appear to be critical for function. Thus, tethering L4-22K either to a position upstream or downstream of the MLP start site, or upstream of a minimal E1B promoter, resulted in an activation of transcription. We also show that the viral pIX promoter is a natural target, activated by L4-22K. Collectively, our results are compatible with the hypothesis that L4-22K may be the elusive component of DEF-A that partakes in activation of the MLP. 
PMID:20630051|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-7-156|PMCID:2913958	Wang L, Liu L, Che Y, Wang L, Jiang L, Dong C, Zhang Y, Li Q	Virol J. 7:156	2010	Egress of HSV-1 capsid requires the interaction of VP26 and a cellular tetraspanin membrane protein. 	HSV-1 viral capsid maturation and egress from the nucleus constitutes a self-controlled process of interactions between host cytoplasmic membrane proteins and viral capsid proteins. In this study, a member of the tetraspanin superfamily, CTMP-7, was shown to physically interact with HSV-1 protein VP26, and the VP26-CTMP-7 complex was detected both in vivo and in vitro. The interaction of VP26 with CTMP-7 plays an essential role in normal HSV-1 replication. Additionally, analysis of a recombinant virus HSV-1-UG showed that mutating VP26 resulted in a decreased viral replication rate and in aggregation of viral mutant capsids in the nucleus. Together, our data support the notion that biological events mediated by a VP26 - CTMP-7 interaction aid in viral capsid enveloping and egress from the cell during the HSV-1 infectious process. 
PMID:20838604|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1001092|PMCID:2936540	Kuny CV, Chinchilla K, Culbertson MR, Kalejta RF	PLoS Pathog. 6(9):e1001092	2010	Cyclin-dependent kinase-like function is shared by the beta- and gamma- subset of the conserved herpesvirus protein kinases. 	The UL97 protein of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV, or HHV-5 (human herpesvirus 5)), is a kinase that phosphorylates the cellular retinoblastoma (Rb) tumor suppressor and lamin A/C proteins that are also substrates of cellular cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks). A functional complementation assay has further shown that UL97 has authentic Cdk-like activity. The other seven human herpesviruses each encode a kinase with sequence and positional homology to UL97. These UL97-homologous proteins have been termed the conserved herpesvirus protein kinases (CHPKs) to distinguish them from other human herpesvirus-encoded kinases. To determine if the Cdk-like activities of UL97 were shared by all of the CHPKs, we individually expressed epitope-tagged alleles of each protein in human Saos-2 cells to test for Rb phosphorylation, human U-2 OS cells to monitor nuclear lamina disruption and lamin A phosphorylation, or S. cerevisiae cdc28-13 mutant cells to directly assay for Cdk function. We found that the ability to phosphorylate Rb and lamin A, and to disrupt the nuclear lamina, was shared by all CHPKs from the beta- and gamma-herpesvirus families, but not by their alpha-herpesvirus homologs. Similarly, all but one of the beta and gamma CHPKs displayed bona fide Cdk activity in S. cerevisiae, while the alpha proteins did not. Thus, we have identified novel virally-encoded Cdk-like kinases, a nomenclature we abbreviate as v-Cdks. Interestingly, we found that other, non-Cdk-related activities reported for UL97 (dispersion of promyelocytic leukemia protein nuclear bodies (PML-NBs) and disruption of cytoplasmic or nuclear aggresomes) showed weak conservation among the CHPKs that, in general, did not segregate to specific viral families. Therefore, the genomic and evolutionary conservation of these kinases has not been fully maintained at the functional level. Our data indicate that these related kinases, some of which are targets of approved or developmental antiviral drugs, are likely to serve both overlapping and non-overlapping functions during viral infections. 
PMID:20862315|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1001110|PMCID:2940741	Saeed MF, Kolokoltsov AA, Albrecht T, Davey RA	PLoS Pathog. 6(9):e1001110	2010	Cellular entry of ebola virus involves uptake by a macropinocytosis-like mechanism and subsequent trafficking through early and late endosomes. 	Zaire ebolavirus (ZEBOV), a highly pathogenic zoonotic virus, poses serious public health, ecological and potential bioterrorism threats. Currently no specific therapy or vaccine is available. Virus entry is an attractive target for therapeutic intervention. However, current knowledge of the ZEBOV entry mechanism is limited. While it is known that ZEBOV enters cells through endocytosis, which of the cellular endocytic mechanisms used remains unclear. Previous studies have produced differing outcomes, indicating potential involvement of multiple routes but many of these studies were performed using noninfectious surrogate systems such as pseudotyped retroviral particles, which may not accurately recapitulate the entry characteristics of the morphologically distinct wild type virus. Here we used replication-competent infectious ZEBOV as well as morphologically similar virus-like particles in specific infection and entry assays to demonstrate that in HEK293T and Vero cells internalization of ZEBOV is independent of clathrin, caveolae, and dynamin. Instead the uptake mechanism has features of macropinocytosis. The binding of virus to cells appears to directly stimulate fluid phase uptake as well as localized actin polymerization. Inhibition of key regulators of macropinocytosis including Pak1 and CtBP/BARS as well as treatment with the drug EIPA, which affects macropinosome formation, resulted in significant reduction in ZEBOV entry and infection. It is also shown that following internalization, the virus enters the endolysosomal pathway and is trafficked through early and late endosomes, but the exact site of membrane fusion and nucleocapsid penetration in the cytoplasm remains unclear. This study identifies the route for ZEBOV entry and identifies the key cellular factors required for the uptake of this filamentous virus. The findings greatly expand our understanding of the ZEBOV entry mechanism that can be applied to development of new therapeutics as well as provide potential insight into the trafficking and entry mechanism of other filoviruses. 
PMID:20865167|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1001066|PMCID:2928791	Liu Y, Wang C, Mueller S, Paul AV, Wimmer E, Jiang P	PLoS Pathog. 6(8):e1001066	2010	Direct interaction between two viral proteins, the nonstructural protein 2C and the capsid protein VP3, is required for enterovirus morphogenesis. 	In spite of decades-long studies, the mechanism of morphogenesis of plus-stranded RNA viruses belonging to the genus Enterovirus of Picornaviridae, including poliovirus (PV), is not understood. Numerous attempts to identify an RNA encapsidation signal have failed. Genetic studies, however, have implicated a role of the non-structural protein 2C(ATPase) in the formation of poliovirus particles. Here we report a novel mechanism in which protein-protein interaction is sufficient to explain the specificity in PV encapsidation. Making use of a novel "reporter virus", we show that a quasi-infectious chimera consisting of the capsid precursor of C-cluster coxsackie virus 20 (C-CAV20) and the nonstructural proteins of the closely related PV translated and replicated its genome with wild type kinetics, whereas encapsidation was blocked. On blind passages, encapsidation of the chimera was rescued by a single mutation either in capsid protein VP3 of CAV20 or in 2C(ATPase) of PV. Whereas each of the single-mutation variants expressed severe proliferation phenotypes, engineering both mutations into the chimera yielded a virus encapsidating with wild type kinetics. Biochemical analyses provided strong evidence for a direct interaction between 2C(ATPase) and VP3 of PV and CAV20. Chimeras of other C-CAVs (CAV20/CAV21 or CAV18/CAV20) were blocked in encapsidation (no virus after blind passages) but could be rescued if the capsid and 2C(ATPase) coding regions originated from the same virus. Our novel mechanism explains the specificity of encapsidation without apparent involvement of an RNA signal by considering that (i) genome replication is known to be stringently linked to translation, (ii) morphogenesis is known to be stringently linked to genome replication, (iii) newly synthesized 2C(ATPase) is an essential component of the replication complex, and (iv) 2C(ATPase) has specific affinity to capsid protein(s). These conditions lead to morphogenesis at the site where newly synthesized genomes emerge from the replication complex. 
PMID:20941355|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1001127|PMCID:2947997	Cureton DK, Massol RH, Whelan SP, Kirchhausen T	PLoS Pathog. 6(9):e1001127	2010	The length of vesicular stomatitis virus particles dictates a need for actin assembly during clathrin-dependent endocytosis. 	Microbial pathogens exploit the clathrin endocytic machinery to enter host cells. Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), an enveloped virus with bullet-shaped virions that measure 70 x 200 nm, enters cells by clathrin-dependent endocytosis. We showed previously that VSV particles exceed the capacity of typical clathrin-coated vesicles and instead enter through endocytic carriers that acquire a partial clathrin coat and require local actin filament assembly to complete vesicle budding and internalization. To understand why the actin system is required for VSV uptake, we compared the internalization mechanisms of VSV and its shorter (75 nm long) defective interfering particle, DI-T. By imaging the uptake of individual particles into live cells, we found that, as with parental virions, DI-T enters via the clathrin endocytic pathway. Unlike VSV, DI-T internalization occurs through complete clathrin-coated vesicles and does not require actin polymerization. Since VSV and DI-T particles display similar surface densities of the same attachment glycoprotein, we conclude that the physical properties of the particle dictate whether a virus-containing clathrin pit engages the actin system. We suggest that the elongated shape of a VSV particle prevents full enclosure by the clathrin coat and that stalling of coat assembly triggers recruitment of the actin machinery to finish the internalization process. Since some enveloped viruses have pleomorphic particle shapes and sizes, our work suggests that they may use altered modes of endocytic uptake. More generally, our findings show the importance of cargo geometry for specifying cellular entry modes, even when the receptor recognition properties of a ligand are maintained. 
PMID:21029432|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-7-288|PMCID:2988020	Geiduschek EP, Kassavetis GA	Virol J. 7:288	2010	Transcription of the T4 late genes. 	This article reviews the current state of understanding of the regulated transcription of the bacteriophage T4 late genes, with a focus on the underlying biochemical mechanisms, which turn out to be unique to the T4-related family of phages or significantly different from other bacterial systems. The activator of T4 late transcription is the gene 45 protein (gp45), the sliding clamp of the T4 replisome. Gp45 becomes topologically linked to DNA through the action of its clamp-loader, but it is not site-specifically DNA-bound, as other transcriptional activators are. Gp45 facilitates RNA polymerase recruitment to late promoters by interacting with two phage-encoded polymerase subunits: gp33, the co-activator of T4 late transcription; and gp55, the T4 late promoter recognition protein. The emphasis of this account is on the sites and mechanisms of actions of these three proteins, and on their roles in the formation of transcription-ready open T4 late promoter complexes. 
PMID:21029436|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-7-292|PMCID:2993671	Petrov VM, Ratnayaka S, Nolan JM, Miller ES, Karam JD	Virol J. 7:292	2010	Genomes of the T4-related bacteriophages as windows on microbial genome evolution. 	The T4-related bacteriophages are a group of bacterial viruses that share morphological similarities and genetic homologies with the well-studied Escherichia coli phage T4, but that diverge from T4 and each other by a number of genetically determined characteristics including the bacterial hosts they infect, the sizes of their linear double-stranded (ds) DNA genomes and the predicted compositions of their proteomes. The genomes of about 40 of these phages have been sequenced and annotated over the last several years and are compared here in the context of the factors that have determined their diversity and the diversity of other microbial genomes in evolution. The genomes of the T4 relatives analyzed so far range in size between ~160,000 and ~250,000 base pairs (bp) and are mosaics of one another, consisting of clusters of homology between them that are interspersed with segments that vary considerably in genetic composition between the different phage lineages. Based on the known biological and biochemical properties of phage T4 and the proteins encoded by the T4 genome, the T4 relatives reviewed here are predicted to share a genetic core, or "Core Genome" that determines the structural design of their dsDNA chromosomes, their distinctive morphology and the process of their assembly into infectious agents (phage morphogenesis). The Core Genome appears to be the most ancient genetic component of this phage group and constitutes a mere 12-15% of the total protein encoding potential of the typical T4-related phage genome. The high degree of genetic heterogeneity that exists outside of this shared core suggests that horizontal DNA transfer involving many genetic sources has played a major role in diversification of the T4-related phages and their spread to a wide spectrum of bacterial species domains in evolution. We discuss some of the factors and pathways that might have shaped the evolution of these phages and point out several parallels between their diversity and the diversity generally observed within all groups of interrelated dsDNA microbial genomes in nature. 
PMID:21092155|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-7-335|PMCID:3002307	Wu J, Du Z, Wang C, Cai L, Hu M, Lin Q, Wu Z, Li Y, Xie L	Virol J. 7:335	2010	Identification of Pns6, a putative movement protein of RRSV, as a silencing suppressor. 	RNA silencing is a potent antiviral response in plants. As a counterdefense, most plant and some animal viruses encode RNA silencing suppressors. In this study, we showed that Pns6, a putative movement protein of Rice ragged stunt virus (RRSV), exhibited silencing suppressor activity in coinfiltration assays with the reporter green fluorescent protein (GFP) in transgenic Nicotiana benthamiana line 16c. Pns6 of RRSV suppressed local silencing induced by sense RNA but had no effect on that induced by dsRNA. Deletion of a region involved in RNA binding abolished the silencing suppressor activity of Pns6. Further, expression of Pns6 enhanced Potato virus x pathogenicity in N. benthamiana. Collectively, these results suggested that RRSV Pns6 functions as a virus suppressor of RNA silencing that targets an upstream step of the dsRNA formation in the RNA silencing pathway. This is the first silencing suppressor to be identified from the genus Oryzavirus. 
PMID:21124990|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1001195|PMCID:2987821	Sabin C, Corti D, Buzon V, Seaman MS, Lutje Hulsik D, Hinz A, Vanzetta F, Agatic G, Silacci C, Mainetti L, Scarlatti G, Sallusto F, Weiss R, Lanzavecchia A, Weissenhorn W	PLoS Pathog. 6(11):e1001195	2010	Crystal structure and size-dependent neutralization properties of HK20, a human monoclonal antibody binding to the highly conserved heptad repeat 1 of gp41. 	The human monoclonal antibody (mAb) HK20 neutralizes a broad spectrum of primary HIV-1 isolates by targeting the highly conserved heptad repeat 1 (HR1) of gp41, which is transiently exposed during HIV-1 entry. Here we present the crystal structure of the HK20 Fab in complex with a gp41 mimetic 5-Helix at 2.3 Aa resolution. HK20 employs its heavy chain CDR H2 and H3 loops to bind into a conserved hydrophobic HR1 pocket that is occupied by HR2 residues in the gp41 post fusion conformation. Compared to the previously described HR1-specific mAb D5, HK20 approaches its epitope with a different angle which might favor epitope access and thus contribute to its higher neutralization breadth and potency. Comparison of the neutralization activities of HK20 IgG, Fab and scFv employing both single cycle and multiple cycle neutralization assays revealed much higher potencies for the smaller Fab and scFv over IgG, implying that the target site is difficult to access for complete antibodies. Nevertheless, two thirds of sera from HIV-1 infected individuals contain significant titers of HK20-inhibiting antibodies. The breadth of neutralization of primary isolates across all clades, the higher potencies for C-clade viruses and the targeting of a distinct site as compared to the fusion inhibitor T-20 demonstrate the potential of HK20 scFv as a therapeutic tool. 
PMID:21129200|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-7-355|PMCID:3004832	Leiman PG, Arisaka F, van Raaij MJ, Kostyuchenko VA, Aksyuk AA, Kanamaru S, Rossmann MG	Virol J. 7:355	2010	Morphogenesis of the T4 tail and tail fibers. 	Remarkable progress has been made during the past ten years in elucidating the structure of the bacteriophage T4 tail by a combination of three-dimensional image reconstruction from electron micrographs and X-ray crystallography of the components. Partial and complete structures of nine out of twenty tail structural proteins have been determined by X-ray crystallography and have been fitted into the 3D-reconstituted structure of the "extended" tail. The 3D structure of the "contracted" tail was also determined and interpreted in terms of component proteins. Given the pseudo-atomic tail structures both before and after contraction, it is now possible to understand the gross conformational change of the baseplate in terms of the change in the relative positions of the subunit proteins. These studies have explained how the conformational change of the baseplate and contraction of the tail are related to the tail's host cell recognition and membrane penetration function. On the other hand, the baseplate assembly process has been recently reexamined in detail in a precise system involving recombinant proteins (unlike the earlier studies with phage mutants). These experiments showed that the sequential association of the subunits of the baseplate wedge is based on the induced-fit upon association of each subunit. It was also found that, upon association of gp53 (gene product 53), the penultimate subunit of the wedge, six of the wedge intermediates spontaneously associate to form a baseplate-like structure in the absence of the central hub. Structure determination of the rest of the subunits and intermediate complexes and the assembly of the hub still require further study. 
PMID:21129201|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-7-356|PMCID:3012670	Rao VB, Black LW	Virol J. 7:356	2010	Structure and assembly of bacteriophage T4 head. 	The bacteriophage T4 capsid is an elongated icosahedron, 120 nm long and 86 nm wide, and is built with three essential proteins; gp23*, which forms the hexagonal capsid lattice, gp24*, which forms pentamers at eleven of the twelve vertices, and gp20, which forms the unique dodecameric portal vertex through which DNA enters during packaging and exits during infection. The past twenty years of research has greatly elevated the understanding of phage T4 head assembly and DNA packaging. The atomic structure of gp24 has been determined. A structural model built for gp23 using its similarity to gp24 showed that the phage T4 major capsid protein has the same fold as that found in phage HK97 and several other icosahedral bacteriophages. Folding of gp23 requires the assistance of two chaperones, the E. coli chaperone GroEL and the phage coded gp23-specific chaperone, gp31. The capsid also contains two non-essential outer capsid proteins, Hoc and Soc, which decorate the capsid surface. The structure of Soc shows two capsid binding sites which, through binding to adjacent gp23 subunits, reinforce the capsid structure. Hoc and Soc have been extensively used in bipartite peptide display libraries and to display pathogen antigens including those from HIV, Neisseria meningitides, Bacillus anthracis, and FMDV. The structure of Ip1*, one of the components of the core, has been determined, which provided insights on how IPs protect T4 genome against the E. coli nucleases that degrade hydroxymethylated and glycosylated T4 DNA. Extensive mutagenesis combined with the atomic structures of the DNA packaging/terminase proteins gp16 and gp17 elucidated the ATPase and nuclease functional motifs involved in DNA translocation and headful DNA cutting. Cryo-EM structure of the T4 packaging machine showed a pentameric motor assembled with gp17 subunits on the portal vertex. Single molecule optical tweezers and fluorescence studies showed that the T4 motor packages DNA at a rate of up to 2000 bp/sec, the fastest reported to date of any packaging motor. FRET-FCS studies indicate that the DNA gets compressed during the translocation process. The current evidence suggests a mechanism in which electrostatic forces generated by ATP hydrolysis drive the DNA translocation by alternating the motor between tensed and relaxed states. 
PMID:21129204|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-7-359|PMCID:3012046	Mueser TC, Hinerman JM, Devos JM, Boyer RA, Williams KJ	Virol J. 7:359	2010	Structural analysis of bacteriophage T4 DNA replication: a review in the Virology Journal series on bacteriophage T4 and its relatives. 	The bacteriophage T4 encodes 10 proteins, known collectively as the replisome, that are responsible for the replication of the phage genome. The replisomal proteins can be subdivided into three activities; the replicase, responsible for duplicating DNA, the primosomal proteins, responsible for unwinding and Okazaki fragment initiation, and the Okazaki repair proteins. The replicase includes the gp43 DNA polymerase, the gp45 processivity clamp, the gp44/62 clamp loader complex, and the gp32 single-stranded DNA binding protein. The primosomal proteins include the gp41 hexameric helicase, the gp61 primase, and the gp59 helicase loading protein. The RNaseH, a 5' to 3' exonuclease and T4 DNA ligase comprise the activities necessary for Okazaki repair. The T4 provides a model system for DNA replication. As a consequence, significant effort has been put forth to solve the crystallographic structures of these replisomal proteins. In this review, we discuss the structures that are available and provide comparison to related proteins when the T4 structures are unavailable. Three of the ten full-length T4 replisomal proteins have been determined; the gp59 helicase loading protein, the RNase H, and the gp45 processivity clamp. The core of T4 gp32 and two proteins from the T4 related phage RB69, the gp43 polymerase and the gp45 clamp are also solved. The T4 gp44/62 clamp loader has not been crystallized but a comparison to the E. coli gamma complex is provided. The structures of T4 gp41 helicase, gp61 primase, and T4 DNA ligase are unknown, structures from bacteriophage T7 proteins are discussed instead. To better understand the functionality of T4 DNA replication, in depth structural analysis will require complexes between proteins and DNA substrates. A DNA primer template bound by gp43 polymerase, a fork DNA substrate bound by RNase H, gp43 polymerase bound to gp32 protein, and RNase H bound to gp32 have been crystallographically determined. The preparation and crystallization of complexes is a significant challenge. We discuss alternate approaches, such as small angle X-ray and neutron scattering to generate molecular envelopes for modeling macromolecular assemblies. 
PMID:21166973|DOI:10.1111/j.1462-5822.2010.01515.x	Schneider MA, Spoden GA, Florin L, Lambert C	Cell Microbiol. 13(1):32-46	2011	Identification of the dynein light chains required for human papillomavirus infection. 	Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are a family of small non-enveloped DNA viruses. Some genital HPV types, including HPV type 16 (HPV16), are the causative agent for the development of cancer at the site of infection. HPVs encode two capsid proteins, L1 and L2. After endocytic cell entry and egress from endosomes, L2 accompanies the viral DNA to the nucleus where replication is initiated. For cytoplasmic transport, L2 interacts with the microtubule network via the motor protein complex dynein. We have performed yeast two-hybrid screening and identified the dynein light chain DYNLT1 (previously called Tctex1) as interaction partner of HPV16 L2. Using co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence colocalization studies we confirmed the L2-DYNLT1 interaction in mammalian cells. Further studies revealed that DYNLT3, the second member of the Tctex-light chain family, also interacts with L2 in vitro and in vivo, whereas other constituents of the dynein complex were not found to associate with L2. Depletion of DYNLT1 and DYNLT3 by specific siRNAs or cytosolic delivery of light chain-specific antibodies inhibited infection of HPV16. Therefore, this work identified two host cell proteins involved in HPV16 infection that are most likely required for transport purposes towards the nucleus. 
PMID:21253573|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1001244|PMCID:3017119	Tunnicliffe RB, Hautbergue GM, Kalra P, Jackson BR, Whitehouse A, Wilson SA, Golovanov AP	PLoS Pathog. 7(1):e1001244	2011	Structural basis for the recognition of cellular mRNA export factor REF by herpes viral proteins HSV-1 ICP27 and HVS ORF57. 	The herpesvirus proteins HSV-1 ICP27 and HVS ORF57 promote viral mRNA export by utilizing the cellular mRNA export machinery. This function is triggered by binding to proteins of the transcription-export (TREX) complex, in particular to REF/Aly which directs viral mRNA to the TAP/NFX1 pathway and, subsequently, to the nuclear pore for export to the cytoplasm. Here we have determined the structure of the REF-ICP27 interaction interface at atomic-resolution and provided a detailed comparison of the binding interfaces between ICP27, ORF57 and REF using solution-state NMR. Despite the absence of any obvious sequence similarity, both viral proteins bind on the same site of the folded RRM domain of REF, via short but specific recognition sites. The regions of ICP27 and ORF57 involved in binding by REF have been mapped as residues 104-112 and 103-120, respectively. We have identified the pattern of residues critical for REF/Aly recognition, common to both ICP27 and ORF57. The importance of the key amino acid residues within these binding sites was confirmed by site-directed mutagenesis. The functional significance of the ORF57-REF/Aly interaction was also probed using an ex vivo cytoplasmic viral mRNA accumulation assay and this revealed that mutants that reduce the protein-protein interaction dramatically decrease the ability of ORF57 to mediate the nuclear export of intronless viral mRNA. Together these data precisely map amino acid residues responsible for the direct interactions between viral adaptors and cellular REF/Aly and provide the first molecular details of how herpes viruses access the cellular mRNA export pathway. 
PMID:21375749|DOI:10.1186/1743-422X-8-99|PMCID:3058096	Legendre M, Santini S, Rico A, Abergel C, Claverie JM	Virol J. 8:99	2011	Breaking the 1000-gene barrier for Mimivirus using ultra-deep genome and transcriptome sequencing. 	Mimivirus, a giant dsDNA virus infecting Acanthamoeba, is the prototype of the mimiviridae family, the latest addition to the family of the nucleocytoplasmic large DNA viruses (NCLDVs). Its 1.2 Mb-genome was initially predicted to encode 917 genes. A subsequent RNA-Seq analysis precisely mapped many transcript boundaries and identified 75 new genes. We now report a much deeper analysis using the SOLiD(TM) technology combining RNA-Seq of the Mimivirus transcriptome during the infectious cycle (202.4 Million reads), and a complete genome re-sequencing (45.3 Million reads). This study corrected the genome sequence and identified several single nucleotide polymorphisms. Our results also provided clear evidence of previously overlooked transcription units, including an important RNA polymerase subunit distantly related to Euryarchea homologues. The total Mimivirus gene count is now 1018, 11% greater than the original annotation. This study highlights the huge progress brought about by ultra-deep sequencing for the comprehensive annotation of virus genomes, opening the door to a complete one-nucleotide resolution level description of their transcriptional activity, and to the realistic modeling of the viral genome expression at the ultimate molecular level. This work also illustrates the need to go beyond bioinformatics-only approaches for the annotation of short protein and non-coding genes in viral genomes. 
PMID:2154888	Albrecht JC, Fleckenstein B	Virology. 174(2):533-42	1990	Structural organization of the conserved gene block of Herpesvirus saimiri coding for DNA polymerase, glycoprotein B, and major DNA binding protein. 	Lymphotropic herpesviruses such as Epstein-Barr virus and Herpesvirus saimiri are commonly grouped as gamma-herpesviruses, although overall genome organization and numerous biological properties are quite different in the viruses. To define the relationship more precisely, we sequenced the Kpnl fragments F (6.5 kb) and C (9.8 kb) of the H.saimiri strain No. 11 genome; these DNA fragments were found to contain the genes coding for equivalents of the major DNA binding protein, a putative glycoprotein transport polypeptide, the glycoprotein B, and the DNA polymerase of herpes simplex virus. This DNA segment represents the longest block of contiguous genes with pronounced sequence homologies between herpesviruses of known DNA primary structure. Comparisons confirmed that the two gamma-herpesviruses are related; the group is, however, even more diverse than the alpha-herpesviruses represented by their prototypes, herpes simplex virus and varicella-zoster virus. H. saimiri DNA is strongly depleted in the dinucleotide CpG, possibly the consequence of de novo methylation of persisting viral DNA in lymphoid cells. 
PMID:2157318	Kumar S, Boyle DB	Virus Res. 15(2):175-85	1990	Mapping of a major early/late gene of fowlpox virus. 	Identification, cloning and mapping of a major gene expressed during the early and late stages of infection with fowlpox virus is described. The gene is located within a 17.3 kb PstI fragment of the fowlpox virus genome and has an open reading frame of 501 bp. Analysis of the 5'-ends of mRNA transcribed from this gene showed that the start sites of both early and late transcripts map to the sequence TAAAT near the translation start site (ATG). This is the first poxvirus early/late gene described in which both early and late transcription start sites map to same DNA sequence. From northern hybridization analysis it was shown that the early function of this gene gives rise to the most abundant early mRNA coded by 17% of the fowlpox virus genome. The strong early function of this gene promoter will be useful in the construction of recombinant fowlpox viruses. 
PMID:2167350	Myint S, Harmsen D, Raabe T, Siddell SG	J Med Virol. 31(2):165-72	1990	Characterization of a nucleic acid probe for the diagnosis of human coronavirus 229E infections. 	A cDNA copy of the HCV229E nucleocapsid protein gene was isolated and characterized. Sequence analysis predicts a nucleocapsid polypeptide of 389 amino acids with a molecular weight (mol. wt.) of 43,450. Single strand RNA probes derived from the cDNA copy hybridize specifically to HCV229E RNA and approximately 50 pg of intracellular viral RNA can be readily detected. The application of nucleic acid hybridization as a routine procedure for the diagnosis of HCV229E infection is discussed. 
PMID:21695240|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002067|PMCID:3111539	Varga ZT, Ramos I, Hai R, Schmolke M, Garcia-Sastre A, Fernandez-Sesma A, Palese P	PLoS Pathog. 7(6):e1002067	2011	The influenza virus protein PB1-F2 inhibits the induction of type I interferon at the level of the MAVS adaptor protein. 	PB1-F2 is a 90 amino acid protein that is expressed from the +1 open reading frame in the PB1 gene of some influenza A viruses and has been shown to contribute to viral pathogenicity. Notably, a serine at position 66 (66S) in PB1-F2 is known to increase virulence compared to an isogenic virus with an asparagine (66N) at this position. Recently, we found that an influenza virus expressing PB1-F2 N66S suppresses interferon (IFN)-stimulated genes in mice. To characterize this phenomenon, we employed several in vitro assays. Overexpression of the A/Puerto Rico/8/1934 (PR8) PB1-F2 protein in 293T cells decreased RIG-I mediated activation of an IFN-Beta reporter and secretion of IFN as determined by bioassay. Of note, the PB1-F2 N66S protein showed enhanced IFN antagonism activity compared to PB1-F2 wildtype. Similar observations were found in the context of viral infection with a PR8 PB1-F2 N66S virus. To understand the relationship between NS1, a previously described influenza virus protein involved in suppression of IFN synthesis, and PB1-F2, we investigated the induction of IFN when NS1 and PB1-F2 were co-expressed in an in vitro transfection system. In this assay we found that PB1-F2 N66S further reduced IFN induction in the presence of NS1. By inducing the IFN-Beta reporter at different levels in the signaling cascade, we found that PB1-F2 inhibited IFN production at the level of the mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS). Furthermore, immunofluorescence studies revealed that PB1-F2 co-localizes with MAVS. In summary, we have characterized the anti-interferon function of PB1-F2 and we suggest that this activity contributes to the enhanced pathogenicity seen with PB1-F2 N66S- expressing influenza viruses. 
PMID:2171304	Banerjee AK, Chattopadhyay D	Adv Virus Res. 38:99-124	1990	Structure and function of the RNA polymerase of vesicular stomatitis virus. 	 
PMID:21738474|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002116|PMCID:3128117	Raghava S, Giorda KM, Romano FB, Heuck AP, Hebert DN	PLoS Pathog. 7(6):e1002116	2011	The SV40 late protein VP4 is a viroporin that forms pores to disrupt membranes for viral release. 	Nonenveloped viruses are generally released by the timely lysis of the host cell by a poorly understood process. For the nonenveloped virus SV40, virions assemble in the nucleus and then must be released from the host cell without being encapsulated by cellular membranes. This process appears to involve the well-controlled insertion of viral proteins into host cellular membranes rendering them permeable to large molecules. VP4 is a newly identified SV40 gene product that is expressed at late times during the viral life cycle that corresponds to the time of cell lysis. To investigate the role of this late expressed protein in viral release, water-soluble VP4 was expressed and purified as a GST fusion protein from bacteria. Purified VP4 was found to efficiently bind biological membranes and support their disruption. VP4 perforated membranes by directly interacting with the membrane bilayer as demonstrated by flotation assays and the release of fluorescent markers encapsulated into large unilamellar vesicles or liposomes. The central hydrophobic domain of VP4 was essential for membrane binding and disruption. VP4 displayed a preference for membranes comprised of lipids that replicated the composition of the plasma membranes over that of nuclear membranes. Phosphatidylethanolamine, a lipid found at high levels in bacterial membranes, was inhibitory against the membrane perforation activity of VP4. The disruption of membranes by VP4 involved the formation of pores of ~3 nm inner diameter in mammalian cells including permissive SV40 host cells. Altogether, these results support a central role of VP4 acting as a viroporin in the perforation of cellular membranes to trigger SV40 viral release. 
PMID:21767154|DOI:10.1089/jir.2011.0043|PMCID:3216071	Sakakibara S, Tosato G	J Interferon Cytokine Res. 31(11):791-801	2011	Viral interleukin-6: role in Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus: associated malignancies. 	Viral interleukin-6 (vIL-6) is a product of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) expressed in latently infected cells and to a higher degree during viral replication. A distinctive feature of vIL-6 is the ability to directly bind and activate gp130 signaling in the absence of other receptor subunits. Secretion of vIL-6 is generally poor, but vIL-6 can activate gp130 from inside the cell. Due to the wide cell distribution of gp130, vIL-6 has the potential to induce a wide range of biological effects. Expression of vIL-6 is variable in KSHV-associated Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), primary effusion lymphoma (PEL), multicentric Castleman's disease (MCD), and in a newly described MCD-like systemic inflammatory syndrome observed in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients. PEL effusions usually contain vIL-6 at high concentrations; since vIL-6 induces vascular endothelial growth factor, vIL-6 likely contributes to vascular permeability and formation of PEL effusions. Lymph nodes affected with MCD contain vIL-6-positive cells, and vIL-6 levels rise in conjunction with flares of the disease and likely contribute to symptoms of inflammation. The development of vIL-6 inhibitors is a potentially important advance in the treatment of KSHV-associated malignancies where vIL-6 is expressed. 
PMID:21906628|DOI:10.1016/j.antiviral.2011.08.019|PMCID:3232008	Hakki M, Drummond C, Houser B, Marousek G, Chou S	Antiviral Res. 92(2):313-8	2011	Resistance to maribavir is associated with the exclusion of pUL27 from nucleoli during human cytomegalovirus infection. 	Select mutations in the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) gene UL27 confer low-grade resistance to the HCMV UL97 kinase inhibitor maribavir (MBV). It has been reported that the 608-amino acid UL27 gene product (pUL27) normally localizes to cell nuclei and nucleoli, whereas its truncation at codon 415, as found in a MBV-resistant mutant, results in cytoplasmic localization. We now show that in the context of full-length pUL27, diverse single amino acid substitutions associated with MBV resistance result in loss of its nucleolar localization when visualized after transient transfection, whereas substitutions representing normal interstrain polymorphism had no such effect. The same differences in localization were observed during a complete infection cycle with recombinant HCMV strains over-expressing full-length fluorescent pUL27 variants. Nested UL27 C-terminal truncation expression plasmids showed that amino acids 596-599 were required for the nucleolar localization of pUL27. These results indicate that the loss of a nucleolar function of pUL27 may contribute to MBV resistance, and that the nucleolar localization of pUL27 during HCMV infection depends not only on a carboxy-terminal domain but also on a property of pUL27 that is affected by MBV-resistant mutations, such as an interaction with component(s) of the nucleolus. 
PMID:21957315|DOI:10.1128/JVI.05487-11|PMCID:3209375	Mohni KN, Mastrocola AS, Bai P, Weller SK, Heinen CD	J Virol. 85(23):12241-53	2011	DNA mismatch repair proteins are required for efficient herpes simplex virus 1 replication. 	Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is a double-stranded DNA virus that replicates in the nucleus of its human host cell and is known to interact with many cellular DNA repair proteins. In this study, we examined the role of cellular mismatch repair (MMR) proteins in the virus life cycle. Both MSH2 and MLH1 are required for efficient replication of HSV-1 in normal human cells and are localized to viral replication compartments. In addition, a previously reported interaction between MSH6 and ICP8 was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation and extended to show that UL12 is also present in this complex. We also report for the first time that MLH1 associates with ND10 nuclear bodies and that like other ND10 proteins, MLH1 is recruited to the incoming genome. Knockdown of MLH1 inhibits immediate-early viral gene expression. MSH2, on the other hand, which is generally thought to play a role in mismatch repair at a step prior to that of MLH1, is not recruited to incoming genomes and appears to act at a later step in the viral life cycle. Silencing of MSH2 appears to inhibit early gene expression. Thus, both MLH1 and MSH2 are required but appear to participate in distinct events in the virus life cycle. The observation that MLH1 plays an earlier role in HSV-1 infection than does MSH2 is surprising and may indicate a novel function for MLH1 distinct from its known MSH2-dependent role in mismatch repair. 
PMID:21994654|DOI:10.3390/v2030710|PMCID:3185647	Whichard JM, Weigt LA, Borris DJ, Li LL, Zhang Q, Kapur V, Pierson FW, Lingohr EJ, She YM, Kropinski AM, Sriranganathan N	Viruses. 2(3):710-30	2010	Complete genomic sequence of bacteriophage felix o1. 	Bacteriophage O1 is a Myoviridae A1 group member used historically for identifying Salmonella. Sequencing revealed a single, linear, 86,155-base-pair genome with 39% average G+C content, 131 open reading frames, and 22 tRNAs. Closest protein homologs occur in Erwinia amylovora phage PhiEa21-4 and Escherichia coli phage wV8. Proteomic analysis indentified structural proteins: Gp23, Gp36 (major tail protein), Gp49, Gp53, Gp54, Gp55, Gp57, Gp58 (major capsid protein), Gp59, Gp63, Gp64, Gp67, Gp68, Gp69, Gp73, Gp74 and Gp77 (tail fiber). Based on phage-host codon differences, 7 tRNAs could affect translation rate during infection. Introns, holin-lysin cassettes, bacterial toxin homologs and host RNA polymerase-modifying genes were absent. 
PMID:22039362|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002304|PMCID:3197594	Negredo A, Palacios G, Vazquez-Moron S, Gonzalez F, Dopazo H, Molero F, Juste J, Quetglas J, Savji N, de la Cruz Martinez M, Herrera JE, Pizarro M, Hutchison SK, Echevarria JE, Lipkin WI, Tenorio A	PLoS Pathog. 7(10):e1002304	2011	Discovery of an ebolavirus-like filovirus in europe. 	Filoviruses, amongst the most lethal of primate pathogens, have only been reported as natural infections in sub-Saharan Africa and the Philippines. Infections of bats with the ebolaviruses and marburgviruses do not appear to be associated with disease. Here we report identification in dead insectivorous bats of a genetically distinct filovirus, provisionally named Lloviu virus, after the site of detection, Cueva del Lloviu, in Spain. 
PMID:22046136|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002339|PMCID:3203186	Covarrubias S, Gaglia MM, Kumar GR, Wong W, Jackson AO, Glaunsinger BA	PLoS Pathog. 7(10):e1002339	2011	Coordinated destruction of cellular messages in translation complexes by the gammaherpesvirus host shutoff factor and the mammalian exonuclease Xrn1. 	Several viruses encode factors that promote host mRNA degradation to silence gene expression. It is unclear, however, whether cellular mRNA turnover pathways are engaged to assist in this process. In Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus this phenotype is enacted by the host shutoff factor SOX. Here we show that SOX-induced mRNA turnover is a two-step process, in which mRNAs are first cleaved internally by SOX itself then degraded by the cellular exonuclease Xrn1. SOX therefore bypasses the regulatory steps of deadenylation and decapping normally required for Xrn1 activation. SOX is likely recruited to translating mRNAs, as it cosediments with translation initiation complexes and depletes polysomes. Cleaved mRNA intermediates accumulate in the 40S fraction, indicating that recognition occurs at an early stage of translation. This is the first example of a viral protein commandeering cellular mRNA turnover pathways to destroy host mRNAs, and suggests that Xrn1 is poised to deplete messages undergoing translation in mammalian cells. 
PMID:22102817|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002376|PMCID:3213115	Tsai K, Thikmyanova N, Wojcechowskyj JA, Delecluse HJ, Lieberman PM	PLoS Pathog. 7(11):e1002376	2011	EBV tegument protein BNRF1 disrupts DAXX-ATRX to activate viral early gene transcription. 	Productive infection by herpesviruses involve the disabling of host-cell intrinsic defenses by viral encoded tegument proteins. Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) typically establishes a non-productive, latent infection and it remains unclear how it confronts the host-cell intrinsic defenses that restrict viral gene expression. Here, we show that the EBV major tegument protein BNRF1 targets host-cell intrinsic defense proteins and promotes viral early gene activation. Specifically, we demonstrate that BNRF1 interacts with the host nuclear protein Daxx at PML nuclear bodies (PML-NBs) and disrupts the formation of the Daxx-ATRX chromatin remodeling complex. We mapped the Daxx interaction domain on BNRF1, and show that this domain is important for supporting EBV primary infection. Through reverse transcription PCR and infection assays, we show that BNRF1 supports viral gene expression upon early infection, and that this function is dependent on the Daxx-interaction domain. Lastly, we show that knockdown of Daxx and ATRX induces reactivation of EBV from latently infected lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs), suggesting that Daxx and ATRX play a role in the regulation of viral chromatin. Taken together, our data demonstrate an important role of BNRF1 in supporting EBV early infection by interacting with Daxx and ATRX; and suggest that tegument disruption of PML-NB-associated antiviral resistances is a universal requirement for herpesvirus infection in the nucleus. 
PMID:22174689|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002432|PMCID:3234252	Gabaev I, Steinbruck L, Pokoyski C, Pich A, Stanton RJ, Schwinzer R, Schulz TF, Jacobs R, Messerle M, Kay-Fedorov PC	PLoS Pathog. 7(12):e1002432	2011	The human cytomegalovirus UL11 protein interacts with the receptor tyrosine phosphatase CD45, resulting in functional paralysis of T cells. 	Human cytomegalovirus (CMV) exerts diverse and complex effects on the immune system, not all of which have been attributed to viral genes. Acute CMV infection results in transient restrictions in T cell proliferative ability, which can impair the control of the virus and increase the risk of secondary infections in patients with weakened or immature immune systems. In a search for new immunomodulatory proteins, we investigated the UL11 protein, a member of the CMV RL11 family. This protein family is defined by the RL11 domain, which has homology to immunoglobulin domains and adenoviral immunomodulatory proteins. We show that pUL11 is expressed on the cell surface and induces intercellular interactions with leukocytes. This was demonstrated to be due to the interaction of pUL11 with the receptor tyrosine phosphatase CD45, identified by mass spectrometry analysis of pUL11-associated proteins. CD45 expression is sufficient to mediate the interaction with pUL11 and is required for pUL11 binding to T cells, indicating that pUL11 is a specific CD45 ligand. CD45 has a pivotal function regulating T cell signaling thresholds; in its absence, the Src family kinase Lck is inactive and signaling through the T cell receptor (TCR) is therefore shut off. In the presence of pUL11, several CD45-mediated functions were inhibited. The induction of tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple signaling proteins upon TCR stimulation was reduced and T cell proliferation was impaired. We therefore conclude that pUL11 has immunosuppressive properties, and that disruption of T cell function via inhibition of CD45 is a previously unknown immunomodulatory strategy of CMV. 
PMID:22174690|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002433|PMCID:3234236	Huang C, Lokugamage KG, Rozovics JM, Narayanan K, Semler BL, Makino S	PLoS Pathog. 7(12):e1002433	2011	SARS coronavirus nsp1 protein induces template-dependent endonucleolytic cleavage of mRNAs: viral mRNAs are resistant to nsp1-induced RNA cleavage. 	SARS coronavirus (SCoV) nonstructural protein (nsp) 1, a potent inhibitor of host gene expression, possesses a unique mode of action: it binds to 40S ribosomes to inactivate their translation functions and induces host mRNA degradation. Our previous study demonstrated that nsp1 induces RNA modification near the 5'-end of a reporter mRNA having a short 5' untranslated region and RNA cleavage in the encephalomyocarditis virus internal ribosome entry site (IRES) region of a dicistronic RNA template, but not in those IRES elements from hepatitis C or cricket paralysis viruses. By using primarily cell-free, in vitro translation systems, the present study revealed that the nsp1 induced endonucleolytic RNA cleavage mainly near the 5' untranslated region of capped mRNA templates. Experiments using dicistronic mRNAs carrying different IRESes showed that nsp1 induced endonucleolytic RNA cleavage within the ribosome loading region of type I and type II picornavirus IRES elements, but not that of classical swine fever virus IRES, which is characterized as a hepatitis C virus-like IRES. The nsp1-induced RNA cleavage of template mRNAs exhibited no apparent preference for a specific nucleotide sequence at the RNA cleavage sites. Remarkably, SCoV mRNAs, which have a 5' cap structure and 3' poly A tail like those of typical host mRNAs, were not susceptible to nsp1-mediated RNA cleavage and importantly, the presence of the 5'-end leader sequence protected the SCoV mRNAs from nsp1-induced endonucleolytic RNA cleavage. The escape of viral mRNAs from nsp1-induced RNA cleavage may be an important strategy by which the virus circumvents the action of nsp1 leading to the efficient accumulation of viral mRNAs and viral proteins during infection. 
PMID:22194685|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002430|PMCID:3240604	Maluquer de Motes C, Cooray S, Ren H, Almeida GM, McGourty K, Bahar MW, Stuart DI, Grimes JM, Graham SC, Smith GL	PLoS Pathog. 7(12):e1002430	2011	Inhibition of apoptosis and NF-KB activation by vaccinia protein N1 occur via distinct binding surfaces and make different contributions to virulence. 	Vaccinia virus (VACV) protein N1 is an intracellular virulence factor and belongs to a family of VACV B-cell lymphoma (Bcl)-2-like proteins whose members inhibit apoptosis or activation of pro-inflammatory transcription factors, such as interferon (IFN) regulatory factor-3 (IRF-3) and nuclear factor-KB (NF-KB). Unusually, N1 inhibits both apoptosis and NF-KB activation. To understand how N1 exerts these different functions, we have mutated residues in the Bcl-2-like surface groove and at the interface used to form N1 homodimers. Mutagenesis of the surface groove abolished only the N1 anti-apoptotic activity and protein crystallography showed these mutants differed from wild-type N1 only at the site of mutation. Conversely, mutagenesis of the dimer interface converted N1 to a monomer and affected only inhibition of NF-KB activation. Collectively, these data show that N1 inhibits pro-inflammatory and pro-apoptotic signalling using independent surfaces of the protein. To determine the relative contribution of each activity to virus virulence, mutant N1 alleles were introduced into a VACV strain lacking N1 and the virulence of these viruses was analysed after intradermal and intranasal inoculation in mice. In both models, VACV containing a mutant N1 unable to inhibit apoptosis had similar virulence to wild-type virus, whereas VACV containing a mutant N1 impaired for NF-KB inhibition induced an attenuated infection similar to that of the N1-deleted virus. This indicates that anti-apoptotic activity of N1 does not drive virulence in these in vivo models, and highlights the importance of pro-inflammatory signalling in the immune response against viral infections. 
PMID:22241980|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002444|PMCID:3248471	Umashankar M, Petrucelli A, Cicchini L, Caposio P, Kreklywich CN, Rak M, Bughio F, Goldman DC, Hamlin KL, Nelson JA, Fleming WH, Streblow DN, Goodrum F	PLoS Pathog. 7(12):e1002444	2011	A novel human cytomegalovirus locus modulates cell type-specific outcomes of infection. 	Clinical strains of HCMV encode 20 putative ORFs within a region of the genome termed ULb' that are postulated to encode functions related to persistence or immune evasion. We have previously identified ULb'-encoded pUL138 as necessary, but not sufficient, for HCMV latency in CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) infected in vitro. pUL138 is encoded on polycistronic transcripts that also encode 3 additional proteins, pUL133, pUL135, and pUL136, collectively comprising the UL133-UL138 locus. This work represents the first characterization of these proteins and identifies a role for this locus in infection. Similar to pUL138, pUL133, pUL135, and pUL136 are integral membrane proteins that partially co-localized with pUL138 in the Golgi during productive infection in fibroblasts. As expected of ULb' sequences, the UL133-UL138 locus was dispensable for replication in cultured fibroblasts. In CD34+ HPCs, this locus suppressed viral replication in HPCs, an activity attributable to both pUL133 and pUL138. Strikingly, the UL133-UL138 locus was required for efficient replication in endothelial cells. The association of this locus with three context-dependent phenotypes suggests an exciting role for the UL133-UL138 locus in modulating the outcome of viral infection in different contexts of infection. Differential profiles of protein expression from the UL133-UL138 locus correlated with the cell-type dependent phenotypes associated with this locus. We extended our in vitro findings to analyze viral replication and dissemination in a NOD-scid IL2RGamma(c) (null)-humanized mouse model. The UL133-UL138(NULL) virus exhibited an increased capacity for replication and/or dissemination following stem cell mobilization relative to the wild-type virus, suggesting an important role in viral persistence and spread in the host. As pUL133, pUL135, pUL136, and pUL138 are conserved in virus strains infecting higher order primates, but not lower order mammals, the functions encoded likely represent host-specific viral adaptations. 
PMID:22258854|DOI:10.1007/s00705-012-1223-0|PMCID:3314816	Azzami K, Ritter W, Tautz J, Beier H	Arch Virol. 157(4):689-702	2012	Infection of honey bees with acute bee paralysis virus does not trigger humoral or cellular immune responses. 	We have studied the responses of honey bees at different life stages (Apis mellifera) to controlled infection with acute bee paralysis virus and have identified the haemolymph of infected larvae and adult worker bees as the compartment where massive propagation of ABPV occurs. Insects respond with a broad spectrum of induced innate immune reactions to bacterial infections, whereas defence mechanisms based on RNA interference play a major role in antiviral immunity. In this study, we have determined that honey bee larvae and adult workers do not produce a humoral immune reaction upon artificial infection with ABPV, in contrast to control individuals challenged with Escherichia coli. ABPV-infected bees produced neither elevated levels of specific antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), such as hymenoptaecin and defensin, nor any general antimicrobial activity, as revealed by inhibition-zone assays. Additionally, adult bees did not generate melanised nodules upon ABPV infection, an important cellular immune function activated by bacteria and viruses in some insects. Challenge of bees with both ABPV and E. coli showed that innate humoral and cellular immune reactions are induced in mixed infections, albeit at a reduced level. 
PMID:22327422|DOI:10.1007/s00705-012-1246-6	Wagner S, Arnold F, Wu Z, Schubert A, Walliser C, Tadagaki K, Jockers R, Mertens T, Michel D	Arch Virol. 157(5):935-49	2012	The 7-transmembrane protein homologue UL78 of the human cytomegalovirus forms oligomers and traffics between the plasma membrane and different intracellular compartments. 	The human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) UL78 ORF is considered to encode an orphan 7-transmembrane receptor. However, until now, the UL78 protein (pUL78) has not been characterized. Here, we have investigated the expression of pUL78 and found it mainly associated with the endoplasmic reticulum. However, we provide evidence that pUL78 is also localized on the cell surface from where it is quickly endocytosed. Colocalization with adaptin and EEA-1 implies that at least a small amount of pUL78 is transported to the trans Golgi network and early endosomes. Using a bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay and co-immunoprecipitation experiments, we were able to find homomeric and heteromeric structure formations of pUL78 and the US28 protein, respectively. However, the absence of pUL78 had no effect on the accumulation of inositol phosphate triggered by the US28 protein. In summary, our results suggest that the UL78 protein of HCMV traffics between the cell surface and cytoplasm, from where it might be recycled via early endosomes. 
PMID:22355451|DOI:10.3390/v4010028|PMCID:3280521	Burand JP, Kim W, Afonso CL, Tulman ER, Kutish GF, Lu Z, Rock DL	Viruses. 4(1):28-61	2012	Analysis of the genome of the sexually transmitted insect virus Helicoverpa zea nudivirus 2. 	The sexually transmitted insect virus Helicoverpa zea nudivirus 2 (HzNV-2) was determined to have a circular double-stranded DNA genome of 231,621 bp coding for an estimated 113 open reading frames (ORFs). HzNV-2 is most closely related to the nudiviruses, a sister group of the insect baculoviruses. Several putative ORFs that share homology with the baculovirus core genes were identified in the viral genome. However, HzNV-2 lacks several key genetic features of baculoviruses including the late transcriptional regulation factor, LEF-1 and the palindromic hrs, which serve as origins of replication. The HzNV-2 genome was found to code for three ORFs that had significant sequence homology to cellular genes which are not generally found in viral genomes. These included a presumed juvenile hormone esterase gene, a gene coding for a putative zinc-dependent matrix metalloprotease, and a major facilitator superfamily protein gene; all of which are believed to play a role in the cellular proliferation and the tissue hypertrophy observed in the malformation of reproductive organs observed in HzNV-2 infected corn earworm moths, Helicoverpa zea. 
PMID:22383886|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002556|PMCID:3285605	Albertini AA, Merigoux C, Libersou S, Madiona K, Bressanelli S, Roche S, Lepault J, Melki R, Vachette P, Gaudin Y	PLoS Pathog. 8(2):e1002556	2012	Characterization of monomeric intermediates during VSV glycoprotein structural transition. 	Entry of enveloped viruses requires fusion of viral and cellular membranes, driven by conformational changes of viral glycoproteins. Crystal structures provide static pictures of pre- and post-fusion conformations of these proteins but the transition pathway remains elusive. Here, using several biophysical techniques, including analytical ultracentrifugation, circular dichroism, electron microscopy and small angle X-ray scattering, we have characterized the low-pH-induced fusogenic structural transition of a soluble form of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) glycoprotein G ectodomain (G(th), aa residues 1-422, the fragment that was previously crystallized). While the post-fusion trimer is the major species detected at low pH, the pre-fusion trimer is not detected in solution. Rather, at high pH, G(th) is a flexible monomer that explores a large conformational space. The monomeric population exhibits a marked pH-dependence and adopts more elongated conformations when pH decreases. Furthermore, large relative movements of domains are detected in absence of significant secondary structure modification. Solution studies are complemented by electron micrographs of negatively stained viral particles in which monomeric ectodomains of G are observed at the viral surface at both pH 7.5 and pH 6.7. We propose that the monomers are intermediates during the conformational change and thus that VSV G trimers dissociate at the viral surface during the structural transition. 
PMID:22754652|DOI:10.3390/v4050847|PMCID:3386624	San Martin C	Viruses. 4(5):847-77	2012	Latest insights on adenovirus structure and assembly. 	Adenovirus (AdV) capsid organization is considerably complex, not only because of its large size (~950 Aa) and triangulation number (pseudo T = 25), but also because it contains four types of minor proteins in specialized locations modulating the quasi-equivalent icosahedral interactions. Up until 2009, only its major components (hexon, penton, and fiber) had separately been described in atomic detail. Their relationships within the virion, and the location of minor coat proteins, were inferred from combining the known crystal structures with increasingly more detailed cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM) maps. There was no structural information on assembly intermediates. Later on that year, two reports described the structural differences between the mature and immature adenoviral particle, starting to shed light on the different stages of viral assembly, and giving further insights into the roles of core and minor coat proteins during morphogenesis [1,2]. Finally, in 2010, two papers describing the atomic resolution structure of the complete virion appeared [3,4]. These reports represent a veritable tour de force for two structural biology techniques: X-ray crystallography and cryoEM, as this is the largest macromolecular complex solved at high resolution by either of them. In particular, the cryoEM analysis provided an unprecedented clear picture of the complex protein networks shaping the icosahedral shell. Here I review these latest developments in the field of AdV structural studies. 
PMID:23028325|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002927|PMCID:3460623	Bala K, Bosco R, Gramolelli S, Haas DA, Kati S, Pietrek M, Haevemeier A, Yakushko Y, Singh VV, Dittrich-Breiholz O, Kracht M, Schulz TF	PLoS Pathog. 8(9):e1002927	2012	Kaposi's sarcoma herpesvirus K15 protein contributes to virus-induced angiogenesis by recruiting PLCGamma1 and activating NFAT1-dependent RCAN1 expression. 	Kaposi's Sarcoma (KS), caused by Kaposi's Sarcoma Herpesvirus (KSHV), is a highly vascularised angiogenic tumor of endothelial cells, characterized by latently KSHV-infected spindle cells and a pronounced inflammatory infiltrate. Several KSHV proteins, including LANA-1 (ORF73), vCyclin (ORF72), vGPCR (ORF74), vIL6 (ORF-K2), vCCL-1 (ORF-K6), vCCL-2 (ORF-K4) and K1 have been shown to exert effects that can lead to the proliferation and atypical differentiation of endothelial cells and/or the secretion of cytokines with angiogenic and inflammatory properties (VEGF, bFGF, IL6, IL8, GROAlfa, and TNFBeta). To investigate a role of the KSHV K15 protein in KSHV-mediated angiogenesis, we carried out a genome wide gene expression analysis on primary endothelial cells infected with KSHV wildtype (KSHVwt) and a KSHV K15 deletion mutant (KSHVDeltaK15). We found RCAN1/DSCR1 (Regulator of Calcineurin 1/Down Syndrome critical region 1), a cellular gene involved in angiogenesis, to be differentially expressed in KSHVwt- vs KSHVDeltaK15-infected cells. During physiological angiogenesis, expression of RCAN1 in endothelial cells is regulated by VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) through a pathway involving the activation of PLCGamma1, Calcineurin and NFAT1. We found that K15 directly recruits PLCGamma1, and thereby activates Calcineurin/NFAT1-dependent RCAN1 expression which results in the formation of angiogenic tubes. Primary endothelial cells infected with KSHVwt form angiogenic tubes upon activation of the lytic replication cycle. This effect is abrogated when K15 is deleted (KSHVDeltaK15) or silenced by an siRNA targeting the K15 expression. Our study establishes K15 as one of the KSHV proteins that contribute to KSHV-induced angiogenesis. 
PMID:23078800|PII:20290	Bermingham A, Chand MA, Brown CS, Aarons E, Tong C, Langrish C, Hoschler K, Brown K, Galiano M, Myers R, Pebody RG, Green HK, Boddington NL, Gopal R, Price N, Newsholme W, Drosten C, Fouchier RA, Zambon M	Euro Surveill. 17(40):20290	2012	Severe respiratory illness caused by a novel coronavirus, in a patient transferred to the United Kingdom from the Middle East, September 2012. 	Coronaviruses have the potential to cause severe transmissible human disease, as demonstrated by the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak of 2003. We describe here the clinical and virological features of a novel coronavirus infection causing severe respiratory illness in a patient transferred to London, United Kingdom, from the Gulf region of the Middle East. 
PMID:23135715|DOI:10.1128/JVI.02844-12|PMCID:3554072	Wagner LM, Bayer A, Deluca NA	J Virol. 87(2):1010-8	2013	Requirement of the N-terminal activation domain of herpes simplex virus ICP4 for viral gene expression. 	ICP4 is the major activator of herpes simplex virus (HSV) transcription. Previous studies have defined several regions of ICP4 that are important for viral gene expression, including a DNA binding domain and transactivation domains that are contained in the C-terminal and N-terminal 520 and 274 amino acids, respectively. Here we show that the N-terminal 210 amino acids of ICP4 are required for interactions with components of TFIID and mediator and, as a consequence, are necessary for the activation of viral genes. A mutant of ICP4 deleted for amino acids 30 to 210, d3-10, was unable to complement an ICP4 null virus at the level of viral replication. This was the result of a severe deficiency in viral gene and protein expression. The absence of viral gene expression coincided with a defect in the recruitment of RNA polymerase II to a representative early promoter (thymidine kinase [TK]). Affinity purification experiments demonstrated that d3-10 ICP4 was not found in complexes with components of TFIID and mediator, suggesting that the defect in RNA polymerase II (Pol II) recruitment was the result of ablated interactions between d3-10 and TFIID and mediator. Complementation assays suggested that the N-terminal and C-terminal regions of ICP4 cooperate to mediate gene expression. The complementation was the result of the formation of more functional heterodimers, which restored the ability of the d3-10-containing molecules to interact with TFIID. Together, these studies suggest that the N terminus contains a true activation domain, mediating interactions with TFIID, mediator, and perhaps other transcription factors, and that the C terminus of the molecule contains activities that augment the functions of the activation domain. 
PMID:23186167|DOI:10.1111/cmi.12075	Sandbaumhuter M, Doehner K, Schipke J, Binz A, Pohlmann A, Sodeik B, Bauerfeind R	Cell Microbiol. 15(2):248-69	2013	Cytosolic herpes simplex virus capsids not only require binding inner tegument protein pUL36 but also pUL37 for active transport prior to secondary envelopment. 	As the inner tegument proteins pUL36 and pUL37 of alphaherpesviruses may contribute to efficient intracellular transport of viral particles, we investigated their role in cytosolic capsid motility during assembly of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1). As reported previously for pUL36, untagged pUL37 and UL37GFP bound to cytosolic capsids before these acquired outer tegument and envelope proteins. Capsids tagged with CheVP26 analysed by live cell imaging were capable of directed long-distance cytoplasmic transport during the assembly of wild-type virions, while capsids of the HSV1-DeltaUL37 or HSV1-DeltaUL36 deletion mutants showed only random, undirected motion. The HSV1-DeltaUL37 phenotype was restored when UL37GFP had been overexpressed prior to infection. Quantitative immunoelectron microscopy revealed that capsids of HSV1-DeltaUL37 still recruited pUL36, whereas pUL37 did not colocalize with capsids of HSV1-DeltaUL36. Nevertheless, the cytosolic capsids of neither mutant could undergo secondary envelopment. Our data suggest that pUL36 and pUL37 are important prior to their functions in linking the inner to the outer tegument. Efficient capsid transport to the organelle of secondary envelopment requires recruitment ofpUL37 onto capsids, most likely via its interaction with pUL36, while capsid-associated pUL36 alone is insufficient. 
PMID:23202520|DOI:10.3390/v4113162|PMCID:3509688	Chatterjee S, Rothenberg E	Viruses. 4(11):3162-78	2012	Interaction of bacteriophage l with its E. coli receptor, LamB. 	The initial step of viral infection is the binding of a virus onto the host cell surface. This first viral-host interaction would determine subsequent infection steps and the fate of the entire infection process. A basic understating of the underlining mechanism of initial virus-host binding is a prerequisite for establishing the nature of viral infection. Bacteriophage &amp;#955; and its host Escherichia coli serve as an excellent paradigm for this purpose. &amp;#955; phages bind to specific receptors, LamB, on the host cell surface during the infection process. The interaction of bacteriophage &amp;#955; with the LamB receptor has been the topic of many studies, resulting in wealth of information on the structure, biochemical properties and molecular biology of this system. Recently, imaging studies using fluorescently labeled phages and its receptor unveil the role of spatiotemporal dynamics and divulge the importance of stochasticity from hidden variables in the infection outcomes. The scope of this article is to review the present state of research on the interaction of bacteriophage &amp;#955; and its E. coli receptor, LamB. 
PMID:23227049|DOI:10.1155/2012/826301|PMCID:3513715	Fuchs R, Blaas D	Adv Virol. 2012:826301	2012	Productive entry pathways of human rhinoviruses. 	Currently, complete or partial genome sequences of more than 150 human rhinovirus (HRV) isolates are known. Twelve species A use members of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family for cell entry, whereas the remaining HRV-A and all HRV-B bind ICAM-1. HRV-Cs exploit an unknown receptor. At least all A and B type viruses depend on receptor-mediated endocytosis for infection. In HeLa cells, they are internalized mainly by a clathrin- and dynamin-dependent mechanism. Upon uptake into acidic compartments, the icosahedral HRV capsid expands by ~4% and holes open at the 2-fold axes, close to the pseudo-3-fold axes and at the base of the star-shaped dome protruding at the vertices. RNA-protein interactions are broken and new ones are established, the small internal myristoylated capsid protein VP4 is expelled, and amphipathic N-terminal sequences of VP1 become exposed. The now hydrophobic subviral particle attaches to the inner surface of endosomes and transfers its genomic (+) ssRNA into the cytosol. The RNA leaves the virus starting with the poly(A) tail at its 3'-end and passes through a membrane pore contiguous with one of the holes in the capsid wall. Alternatively, the endosome is disrupted and the RNA freely diffuses into the cytoplasm. 
PMID:23246644|DOI:10.1016/j.virusres.2012.12.003|PII:S0168-1702(12)00465-0	Patel D, Schultz LW, Umland TC	Virus Res. 172(1-2):75-80	2013	Influenza A polymerase subunit PB2 possesses overlapping binding sites for polymerase subunit PB1 and human MAVS proteins. 	Influenza A virus is an important human pathogen accounting for widespread morbidity and mortality, with new strains emerging from animal reservoirs possessing the potential to cause pandemics. The influenza A RNA-dependent RNA polymerase complex consists of three subunits (PA, PB1, and PB2) and catalyzes viral RNA replication and transcription activities in the nuclei of infected host cells. The PB2 subunit has been implicated in pathogenicity and host adaptation. This includes the inhibition of type I interferon induction through interaction with the host's mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS), an adaptor molecule of RIG-I-like helicases. This study reports the identification of the cognate PB2 and MAVS interaction domains necessary for complex formation. Specifically, MAVS residues 1-150, containing both the CARD domain and the N-terminal portion of the proline rich-region, and PB2 residues 1-37 are essential for PB2-MAVS virus-host protein-protein complex formation. The three Alfa-helices constituting PB2 (1-37) were tested to determine their relative influence in complex formation, and Helix3 was observed to promote the primary interaction with MAVS. The PB2 MAVS-binding domain unexpectedly coincided with its PB1-binding domain, indicating an important dual functionality for this region of PB2. Analysis of these interaction domains suggests both virus and host properties that may contribute to host tropism. Additionally, the results of this study suggest a new strategy to develop influenza A therapeutics by simultaneously blocking PB2-MAVS and PB2-PB1 protein-protein interactions and their resulting activities. 
PMID:23555243|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1003224|PMCID:3605307	Nemcovicova I, Benedict CA, Zajonc DM	PLoS Pathog. 9(3):e1003224	2013	Structure of human cytomegalovirus UL141 binding to TRAIL-R2 reveals novel, non-canonical death receptor interactions. 	The TRAIL (TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand) death receptors (DRs) of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily (TNFRSF) can promote apoptosis and regulate antiviral immunity by maintaining immune homeostasis during infection. In turn, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) expresses immunomodulatory proteins that down-regulate cell surface expression of TNFRSF members as well as poliovirus receptor-related proteins in an effort to inhibit host immune effector pathways that would lead to viral clearance. The UL141 glycoprotein of human cytomegalovirus inhibits host defenses by blocking cell surface expression of TRAIL DRs (by retention in ER) and poliovirus receptor CD155, a nectin-like Ig-fold molecule. Here we show that the immunomodulatory function of HCMV UL141 is associated with its ability to bind diverse proteins, while utilizing at least two distinct binding sites to selectively engage TRAIL DRs or CD155. Binding studies revealed high affinity interaction of UL141 with both TRAIL-R2 and CD155 and low affinity binding to TRAIL-R1. We determined the crystal structure of UL141 bound to TRAIL-R2 at 2.1 Aa resolution, which revealed that UL141 forms a homodimer that engages two TRAIL-R2 monomers 90 apart to form a heterotetrameric complex. Our structural and biochemical data reveal that UL141 utilizes its Ig-domain to facilitate non-canonical death receptor interactions while UL141 partially mimics the binding site of TRAIL on TRAIL-R2, which we found to be distinct from that of CD155. Moreover, UL141 also binds to an additional surface patch on TRAIL-R2 that is distinct from the TRAIL binding site. Therefore, the breadth of UL141-mediated effects indicates that HCMV has evolved sophisticated strategies to evade the immune system by modulating multiple effector pathways. 
PMID:23623980|DOI:10.1016/j.virusres.2013.04.001|PII:S0168-1702(13)00114-7	Farina A, Santarelli R, Bloise R, Gonnella R, Granato M, Bei R, Modesti A, Cirone M, Bengtsson L, Angeloni A, Faggioni A	Virus Res. 175(2):143-50	2013	KSHV ORF67 encoded lytic protein localizes on the nuclear membrane and alters emerin distribution. 	p29, a newly identified Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) protein, is the product of ORF67, the positional homolog of the conserved herpesvirus protein UL34. Like its homologues in other herpesviruses, p29 is expressed early during viral lytic cycle, and is localized on the nuclear rim. Upon chemical induction of viral replication in primary effusion lymphoma cells, p29 interacts with p33, encoded by ORF69, the positional homolog of the conserved herpesvirus protein UL31, and both proteins colocalize on the nuclear membrane. IFA and biochemical analysis of infected or transfected cells showed that p29 expression resulted in delocalization and hyperphosphorylation of emerin, whereas other nuclear lamin associated proteins, such as LUMA, LB1 and LBR were not affected. Mislocalization of emerin was robustly increased upon combined expression of p29 and p33, suggesting that emerin destabilization might represent the first step in nuclear lamina disassembling, a process necessary for nucleocapsid maturation. 
PMID:23793113|DOI:10.3390/v5061587|PMCID:3717723	Ersing I, Bernhardt K, Gewurz BE	Viruses. 5(6):1587-606	2013	NF-KB and IRF7 pathway activation by Epstein-Barr virus Latent Membrane Protein 1. 	The principal Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) oncoprotein, Latent Membrane Protein 1 (LMP1), is expressed in most EBV-associated human malignancies. LMP1 mimics CD40 receptor signaling to provide infected cells with constitutive NF-KB, MAP kinase, IRF7, and PI3 kinase pathway stimulation. EBV-transformed B-cells are particularly dependent on constitutive NF-KB activity, and rapidly undergo apoptosis upon NF-KB blockade. Here, we review LMP1 function, with special attention to current understanding of the molecular mechanisms of LMP1-mediated NF-KB and IRF7 pathway activation. Recent advances include the elucidation of transmembrane motifs important for LMP1 trafficking and ligand-independent signaling, analysis of genome-wide LMP1 gene targets, and the identification of novel cell proteins that mediate LMP1 NF-KB and IRF7 pathway activation. 
PMID:2391501	Koganezawa H, Hibino H, Motoyoshi F, Kato H, Noda H, Ishikawa K, Omura T	J Gen Virol. 71 ( Pt 8):1861-3	1990	Nucleotide sequence of segment S9 of the genome of rice gall dwarf virus. 	DNA complementary to the ninth largest (S9) of the 12 genome segments of rice gall dwarf virus (RGDV) was cloned and its sequence was determined. It is 1202 nucleotides in length and contains one open reading frame which extends for 969 nucleotides from nucleotide 26. It encodes a polypeptide of 323 amino acids with an Mr of 35,560. The dinucleotide sequence at the 5' end and the trinucleotide sequence at the 3' end of the plus strand, 5' GG--GAU 3', which are present in the RNA of both wound tumour virus (WTV) and rice dwarf virus (RDV), were also found in RGDV genome segment S9. The nucleotide sequences in the noncoding region at the 5' terminus and in the 15 nucleotides at the 3' terminus, which form an imperfect inverted repeat of 10 bp together with the 5' terminus, are approximately 70% homologous with those of the WTV genome segment S9, but only 30% and 50% homologous with the respective termini of RDV S9. 
PMID:23943763|DOI:10.1128/mBio.00524-13|PII:e00524-13|PMCID:3747587	Angelini MM, Akhlaghpour M, Neuman BW, Buchmeier MJ	MBio. 4(4)	2013	Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus nonstructural proteins 3, 4, and 6 induce double-membrane vesicles. 	Coronaviruses (CoV), like other positive-stranded RNA viruses, redirect and rearrange host cell membranes for use as part of the viral genome replication and transcription machinery. Specifically, coronaviruses induce the formation of double-membrane vesicles in infected cells. Although these double-membrane vesicles have been well characterized, the mechanism behind their formation remains unclear, including which viral proteins are responsible. Here, we use transfection of plasmid constructs encoding full-length versions of the three transmembrane-containing nonstructural proteins (nsps) of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus to examine the ability of each to induce double-membrane vesicles in tissue culture. nsp3 has membrane disordering and proliferation ability, both in its full-length form and in a C-terminal-truncated form. nsp3 and nsp4 working together have the ability to pair membranes. nsp6 has membrane proliferation ability as well, inducing perinuclear vesicles localized around the microtubule organizing center. Together, nsp3, nsp4, and nsp6 have the ability to induce double-membrane vesicles that are similar to those observed in SARS coronavirus-infected cells. This activity appears to require the full-length form of nsp3 for action, as double-membrane vesicles were not seen in cells coexpressing the C-terminal truncation nsp3 with nsp4 and nsp6. Although the majority of infections caused by coronaviruses in humans are relatively mild, the SARS outbreak of 2002 to 2003 and the emergence of the human coronavirus Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome (MERS-CoV) in 2012 highlight the ability of these viruses to cause severe pathology and fatality. Insight into the molecular biology of how coronaviruses take over the host cell is critical for a full understanding of any known and possible future outbreaks caused by these viruses. Additionally, since membrane rearrangement is a tactic used by all known positive-sense single-stranded RNA viruses, this work adds to that body of knowledge and may prove beneficial in the development of future therapies not only for human coronavirus infections but for other pathogens as well. 
PMID:24198424|DOI:10.1128/JVI.02262-13|PMCID:3911642	Zivanovic Y, Confalonieri F, Ponchon L, Lurz R, Chami M, Flayhan A, Renouard M, Huet A, Decottignies P, Davidson AR, Breyton C, Boulanger P	J Virol. 88(2):1162-74	2014	Insights into bacteriophage T5 structure from analysis of its morphogenesis genes and protein components. 	Bacteriophage T5 represents a large family of lytic Siphoviridae infecting Gram-negative bacteria. The low-resolution structure of T5 showed the T=13 geometry of the capsid and the unusual trimeric organization of the tail tube, and the assembly pathway of the capsid was established. Although major structural proteins of T5 have been identified in these studies, most of the genes encoding the morphogenesis proteins remained to be identified. Here, we combine a proteomic analysis of T5 particles with a bioinformatic study and electron microscopic immunolocalization to assign function to the genes encoding the structural proteins, the packaging proteins, and other nonstructural components required for T5 assembly. A head maturation protease that likely accounts for the cleavage of the different capsid proteins is identified. Two other proteins involved in capsid maturation add originality to the T5 capsid assembly mechanism: the single head-to-tail joining protein, which closes the T5 capsid after DNA packaging, and the nicking endonuclease responsible for the single-strand interruptions in the T5 genome. We localize most of the tail proteins that were hitherto uncharacterized and provide a detailed description of the tail tip composition. Our findings highlight novel variations of viral assembly strategies and of virion particle architecture. They further recommend T5 for exploring phage structure and assembly and for deciphering conformational rearrangements that accompany DNA transfer from the capsid to the host cytoplasm. 
PMID:24498878|DOI:10.1186/1742-4690-11-15|PMCID:3930549	Pham TN, Lukhele S, Hajjar F, Routy JP, Cohen EA	Retrovirology. 11:15	2014	HIV Nef and Vpu protect HIV-infected CD4+ T cells from antibody-mediated cell lysis through down-modulation of CD4 and BST2. 	HIV proteins Nef and Vpu down-modulate various host factors to evade immune defenses. Indeed, the CD4 receptor is down-regulated by Nef and Vpu, whereas virion-tethering BST2 is depleted by Vpu. Antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) is increasingly recognized as a potentially powerful anti-HIV response. Given that epitopes which are specific for ADCC-competent anti-HIV antibodies are transitionally exposed upon CD4-mediated HIV entry, we investigated whether by depleting CD4 and BST2, HIV could negatively affect ADCC function. Using anti-envelope (Env) Abs A32 and 2G12 to trigger ADCC activity, we find that interactions between CD4 and Env within infected cells expose ADCC-targeted epitopes on cell-surface Env molecules, marking infected T cells for lysis by immune cells. We also provide evidence to show that by cross-linking nascent virions at the plasma membrane, hence increasing cell-surface Env density, BST2 further enhances the efficiency of this antiviral process. The heightened susceptibility of T cells infected with a virus lacking Nef and Vpu to ADCC was recapitulated when plasmas from HIV-infected patients were used as an alternative source of Abs. Our data unveil a mechanism by which HIV Nef and Vpu function synergistically to protect infected cells from ADCC and promote viral persistence. These findings also renew the potential practical relevance of ADCC function in vivo. 
PMID:24550725|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1003907|PMCID:3923783	Tunnicliffe RB, Hautbergue GM, Wilson SA, Kalra P, Golovanov AP	PLoS Pathog. 10(2):e1003907	2014	Competitive and cooperative interactions mediate RNA transfer from herpesvirus saimiri ORF57 to the mammalian export adaptor ALYREF. 	The essential herpesvirus adaptor protein HVS ORF57, which has homologs in all other herpesviruses, promotes viral mRNA export by utilizing the cellular mRNA export machinery. ORF57 protein specifically recognizes viral mRNA transcripts, and binds to proteins of the cellular transcription-export (TREX) complex, in particular ALYREF. This interaction introduces viral mRNA to the NXF1 pathway, subsequently directing it to the nuclear pore for export to the cytoplasm. Here we have used a range of techniques to reveal the sites for direct contact between RNA and ORF57 in the absence and presence of ALYREF. A binding site within ORF57 was characterized which recognizes specific viral mRNA motifs. When ALYREF is present, part of this ORF57 RNA binding site, composed of an Alfa-helix, binds preferentially to ALYREF. This competitively displaces viral RNA from the Alfa-helix, but contact with RNA is still maintained by a flanking region. At the same time, the flexible N-terminal domain of ALYREF comes into contact with the viral RNA, which becomes engaged in an extensive network of synergistic interactions with both ALYREF and ORF57. Transfer of RNA to ALYREF in the ternary complex, and involvement of individual ORF57 residues in RNA recognition, were confirmed by UV cross-linking and mutagenesis. The atomic-resolution structure of the ORF57-ALYREF interface was determined, which noticeably differed from the homologous ICP27-ALYREF structure. Together, the data provides the first site-specific description of how viral mRNA is locked by a herpes viral adaptor protein in complex with cellular ALYREF, giving herpesvirus access to the cellular mRNA export machinery. The NMR strategy used may be more generally applicable to the study of fuzzy protein-protein-RNA complexes which involve flexible polypeptide regions. 
PMID:24907482|DOI:10.1016/j.virusres.2014.05.011|PII:S0168-1702(14)00215-9	Darlix JL, de Rocquigny H, Mauffret O, Mely Y	Virus Res. 193:2-15	2014	Retrospective on the all-in-one retroviral nucleocapsid protein. 	This review aims at briefly presenting a retrospect on the retroviral nucleocapsid protein (NC), from an unspecific nucleic acid binding protein (NABP) to an all-in-one viral protein with multiple key functions in the early and late phases of the retrovirus replication cycle, notably reverse transcription of the genomic RNA and viral DNA integration into the host genome, and selection of the genomic RNA together with the initial steps of virus morphogenesis. In this context we will discuss the notion that NC protein has a flexible conformation and is thus a member of the growing family of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) where disorder may account, at least in part, for its function as a nucleic acid (NA) chaperone and possibly as a protein chaperone vis-a-vis the viral DNA polymerase during reverse transcription. Lastly, we will briefly review the development of new anti-retroviral/AIDS compounds targeting HIV-1 NC because it represents an ideal target due to its multiple roles in the early and late phases of virus replication and its high degree of conservation. 
PMID:24933691|DOI:10.1016/j.tim.2014.04.012|PII:S0966-842X(14)00094-8|PMCID:4157688	Tedbury PR, Freed EO	Trends Microbiol. 22(7):372-8	2014	The role of matrix in HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein incorporation. 	Incorporation of the viral envelope (Env) glycoprotein is a critical requirement for the production of infectious HIV-1 particles. It has long been appreciated that the matrix (MA) domain of the Gag polyprotein and the cytoplasmic tail of Env are central players in the process of Env incorporation, but the precise mechanisms have been elusive. Several recent developments have thrown light on the contributions of both proteins, prompting a re-evaluation of the role of MA during Env incorporation. The two domains appear to play distinct but complementary roles, with the cytoplasmic tail of Env responsible for directing Env to the site of assembly and the matrix domain accommodating the cytoplasmic tail of Env in the Gag lattice. 
PMID:2501515|PMCID:250908	Markoff L	J Virol. 63(8):3345-52	1989	In vitro processing of dengue virus structural proteins: cleavage of the pre-membrane protein. 	Processing of dengue virus structural proteins was assessed in vitro. RNA transcripts for cell-free translation were prepared from cloned DNA (dengue virus type 4, strain 814669 genome) encoding capsid, pre-membrane (prM), and the first 23 amino acids of envelope (E). Processing of a 33-kilodalton precursor polypeptide encoded by wild-type RNA transcripts occurred only in the presence of added microsomal membranes. Under these conditions, cleavage at the capsid-prM and prM-E sites and glycosylation of prM occurred in association with translocation. Amino acid sequence analysis confirmed that translation initiated at the predicted N terminus of the capsid and that capsid-prM cleavage occurred at the predicted site for the action of signal peptidase following a candidate signal sequence (hydrophobic residues 100 to 113) in the dengue virus precursor. Mutations were introduced into the dengue virus DNA template by site-directed mutagenesis, altering nucleotide sequences encoding the capsid and the candidate signal for prM. The phenotypes of the mutants were deduced by analysis of the products of cell-free translation of the respective RNA transcripts. The resulting observations confirmed that cleavage at the capsid-prM and prM-E sites is effected entirely by signal peptidase and that the candidate signal is required for translocation. 
PMID:25121590|DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1004304|PMCID:4133388	Banerjee S, Lu J, Cai Q, Sun Z, Jha HC, Robertson ES	PLoS Pathog. 10(8):e1004304	2014	EBNA3C augments Pim-1 mediated phosphorylation and degradation of p21 to promote B-cell proliferation. 	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a ubiquitous human herpesvirus, can latently infect the human population. EBV is associated with several types of malignancies originating from lymphoid and epithelial cell types. EBV latent antigen 3C (EBNA3C) is essential for EBV-induced immortalization of B-cells. The Moloney murine leukemia provirus integration site (PIM-1), which encodes an oncogenic serine/threonine kinase, is linked to several cellular functions involving cell survival, proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. Notably, enhanced expression of Pim-1 kinase is associated with numerous hematological and non-hematological malignancies. A higher expression level of Pim-1 kinase is associated with EBV infection, suggesting a crucial role for Pim-1 in EBV-induced tumorigenesis. We now demonstrate a molecular mechanism which reveals a direct role for EBNA3C in enhancing Pim-1 expression in EBV-infected primary B-cells. We also showed that EBNA3C is physically associated with Pim-1 through its amino-terminal domain, and also forms a molecular complex in B-cells. EBNA3C can stabilize Pim-1 through abrogation of the proteasome/Ubiquitin pathway. Our results demonstrate that EBNA3C enhances Pim-1 mediated phosphorylation of p21 at the Thr145 residue. EBNA3C also facilitated the nuclear localization of Pim-1, and promoted EBV transformed cell proliferation by altering Pim-1 mediated regulation of the activity of the cell-cycle inhibitor p21/WAF1. Our study demonstrated that EBNA3C significantly induces Pim-1 mediated proteosomal degradation of p21. A significant reduction in cell proliferation of EBV-transformed LCLs was observed upon stable knockdown of Pim-1. This study describes a critical role for the oncoprotein Pim-1 in EBV-mediated oncogenesis, as well as provides novel insights into oncogenic kinase-targeted therapeutic intervention of EBV-associated cancers. 
PMID:25275136|DOI:10.1128/JVI.01895-14|PMCID:4249116	Tsai K, Chan L, Gibeault R, Conn K, Dheekollu J, Domsic J, Marmorstein R, Schang LM, Lieberman PM	J Virol. 88(24):14350-63	2014	Viral reprogramming of the Daxx histone H3.3 chaperone during early Epstein-Barr virus infection. 	Host chromatin assembly can function as a barrier to viral infection. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) establishes latent infection as chromatin-assembled episomes in which all but a few viral genes are transcriptionally silent. The factors that control chromatin assembly and guide transcription regulation during the establishment of latency are not well understood. Here, we demonstrate that the EBV tegument protein BNRF1 binds the histone H3.3 chaperone Daxx to modulate histone mobility and chromatin assembly on the EBV genome during the early stages of primary infection. We demonstrate that BNRF1 substitutes for the repressive cochaperone ATRX to form a ternary complex of BNRF1-Daxx-H3.3-H4, using coimmunoprecipitation and size-exclusion chromatography with highly purified components. FRAP (fluorescence recovery after photobleaching) assays were used to demonstrate that BNRF1 promotes global mobilization of cellular histone H3.3. Mutation of putative nucleotide binding motifs on BNRF1 attenuates the displacement of ATRX from Daxx. We also show by immunofluorescence combined with fluorescence in situ hybridization that BNRF1 is important for the dissociation of ATRX and Daxx from nuclear bodies during de novo infection of primary B lymphocytes. Virion-delivered BNRF1 suppresses Daxx-ATRX-mediated H3.3 loading on viral chromatin as measured by chromatin immunoprecipitation assays and enhances viral gene expression during early infection. We propose that EBV tegument protein BNRF1 replaces ATRX to reprogram Daxx-mediated H3.3 loading, in turn generating chromatin suitable for latent gene expression. Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) is a human herpesvirus that efficiently establishes latent infection in primary B lymphocytes. Cellular chromatin assembly plays an important role in regulating the establishment of EBV latency. We show that the EBV tegument protein BNRF1 functions to regulate chromatin assembly on the viral genome during early infection. BNRF1 alters the host cellular chromatin assembly to prevent antiviral repressive chromatin and establish chromatin structure permissive for viral gene expression and the establishment of latent infection. 
PMID:25352622|DOI:10.1128/mBio.02035-14|PII:e02035-14|PMCID:4217178	MacManiman JD, Meuser A, Botto S, Smith PP, Liu F, Jarvis MA, Nelson JA, Caposio P	MBio. 5(6):e02035	2014	Human cytomegalovirus-encoded pUL7 is a novel CEACAM1-like molecule responsible for promotion of angiogenesis. 	Persistent human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection has been linked to several diseases, including atherosclerosis, transplant vascular sclerosis (TVS), restenosis, and glioblastoma. We have previously shown that factors secreted from HCMV-infected cells induce angiogenesis and that this process is due, at least in part, to increased secretion of interleukin-6 (IL-6). In order to identify the HCMV gene(s) responsible for angiogenesis promotion, we constructed a large panel of replication-competent HCMV recombinants. One HCMV recombinant deleted for UL1 to UL10 was unable to induce secretion of factors necessary for angiogenesis. Fine mapping using additional HCMV recombinants identified UL7 as a viral gene required for production of angiogenic factors from HCMV-infected cells. Transient expression of pUL7 induced phosphorylation of STAT3 and ERK1/2 MAP kinases and production of proangiogenic factors, including IL-6. Addition of recombinant pUL7 to cells was sufficient for angiogenesis and was again associated with increased IL-6 expression. Analysis of the UL7 structure revealed a conserved domain similar to the immunoglobulin superfamily domain and related to the N-terminal V-like domain of carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 1 (CEACAM1). Our report therefore identifies UL7 as a novel HCMV-encoded molecule that is both structurally and functionally related to cellular CEACAM1, a proangiogenic factor highly expressed during vasculogenesis. A hallmark of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is its ability to modulate the host cellular machinery, resulting in the secretion of factors associated with long-term diseases such as vascular disorders and cancer. We previously demonstrated that HCMV infection alters the types and quantities of bioactive proteins released from cells (designated the HCMV secretome) that are involved in the promotion of angiogenesis and wound healing. A key proangiogenic and antiapoptotic factor identified from a proteomic-based approach was IL-6. In the present report, we show for the first time that HCMV UL7 encodes a soluble molecule that is a structural and functional homologue of the CEACAM1 proangiogenic cellular factor. This report thereby identifies a critical component of the HCMV secretome that may be responsible, at least in part, for the vascular dysregulation associated with persistent HCMV infection. 
PMID:2691633	Webster A, Russell S, Talbot P, Russell WC, Kemp GD	J Gen Virol. 70 ( Pt 12):3225-34	1989	Characterization of the adenovirus proteinase: substrate specificity. 	Peptides were synthesized based on the cleavage sites in the adenovirus type 2 proteins pVI and pVII. The synthetic peptides were incubated with disrupted, purified adenovirus as a source of proteinase and specific cleavages were monitored by fast protein liquid chromatography and amino acid analysis. Using this approach it was established that all the peptides cleaved were of the form M(L)XGX decreases G or M(L)XGG decreases X. Thus we have shown that the adenoviral proteinase recognizes a specific secondary structure formed by a sequence of at least five amino acids, the main determinants of specificity being two and four residues to the N-terminal side of the bond cleaved. We were able to examine the relevant structural features of the peptide substrates by utilizing the CHEM-X molecular modelling package. Using our consensus sequence we were able to predict the cleavage sites in the viral proteins pVIII, pre-terminal protein (pTP), 11K and IIIa. Octapeptides containing the predicted sites in pVIII and the pTP were synthesized and shown to be cleaved by the proteinase. 
PMID:2741348	Wright PJ, Cauchi MR, Ng ML	Virology. 171(1):61-7	1989	Definition of the carboxy termini of the three glycoproteins specified by dengue virus type 2. 	The carboxy termini of the three glycoproteins (prM, E, and NS1) specified by dengue virus type 2 (DEN-2) were determined. The glycoproteins were radiolabeled with selected amino acids chosen following analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence of the polyprotein and then digested with carboxypeptidase A. The pattern of release of radioactive amino acids enabled definition of the carboxy termini. In addition, the amino terminus of NS2A was determined by Edman degradation of the radiolabeled protein. The results showed that no amino acids were lost at the carboxy termini of prM, E, and NS1 during their cleavage from the DEN-2 polyprotein. For each glycoprotein, the carboxy terminal amino acid immediately preceded the amino terminal acid of the following polypeptide. 
PMID:2763468	Casjens S, Eppler K, Parr R, Poteete AR	Virology. 171(2):588-98	1989	Nucleotide sequence of the bacteriophage P22 gene 19 to 3 region: identification of a new gene required for lysis. 	The nucleotide sequence of a 2558-bp region of bacteriophage P22 at the right end of the genetic map between genes 19 and 3 was determined. A new gene that is partially required for lytic growth, named gene 15, was noted. P22 mutants were constructed which lack gene 15 function, and the gene 15 product was found to be required for lysis in the presence of some divalent cations. It has extensive amino acid sequence similarity with the phage lambda Rz gene, which has a similar function, and weak similarity to the phage T7 18.5 gene which previously had no known function. A hybrid P22 phage, in which the T7 18.5 gene replaces the P22 gene 15, exhibits the plating properties of wild-type P22, strongly suggesting that the two genes have similar functions. In addition, deletions were constructed which show that phage P22 has no additional genes required for lytic growth of lysogeny between genes 19 and 3. 
PMID:2844967	Sawyer MH, Inchauspe G, Biron KK, Waters DJ, Straus SE, Ostrove JM	J Gen Virol. 69 ( Pt 10):2585-93	1988	Molecular analysis of the pyrimidine deoxyribonucleoside kinase gene of wild-type and acyclovir-resistant strains of varicella-zoster virus. 	The pyrimidine deoxyribonucleoside kinase (dPK) genes from five wild-type and four acyclovir-resistant varicella-zoster virus (VZV) strains were studied. One of the acyclovir-resistant strains was isolated from a patient receiving chronic acyclovir therapy. Acyclovir-resistant strains expressed the 1.8 kb VZV dPK transcript but lacked dPK activity. To determine the basis for the lack of enzyme activity the dPK gene from each strain was cloned and its DNA sequence determined. The VZV dPK gene was found to be highly conserved among strains, with greater than 99% nucleotide and amino acid homology. Each acyclovir-resistant VZV strain differed from its wild-type parent in only a single amino acid. The dPK genes from the acyclovir-resistant strains contained either point mutations near the putative thymidine-binding site of the enzyme or ones that resulted in the premature termination of protein synthesis. Single point mutations were sufficient to render these strains dPK-negative and highly resistant to acyclovir. The molecular basis for acyclovir resistance at the dPK locus of VZV is similar to that previously noted to render herpes simplex viruses resistant to acyclovir. 
PMID:3018124	Davison AJ, Scott JE	J Gen Virol. 67 ( Pt 9):1759-816	1986	The complete DNA sequence of varicella-zoster virus. 	The entire DNA sequence of varicella-zoster virus (VZV) was determined using the M13-dideoxynucleotide technology. The genome is variable in size, but the sequence which was obtained comprises 124884 bp. Analysis of the sequence indicated that the genome contains 70 genes distributed about equally between the two DNA strands. The genes are organized compactly, but regions of overlap between protein-coding regions are not extensive. Many of the genes are arranged in 3'-coterminal families, and at least one is spliced. The discerned organization of VZV genes and that deduced for herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) from published transcript mapping data indicate that these two members of the Alphaherpesvirinae are very similar in gene layout. Comparisons of the predicted amino acid sequences of VZV proteins with those available for HSV-1 proteins generally suggest evolution from an ancestral genome, and allow the functions of several VZV genes to be deduced, although limited regions where the genomes differ in functional organization were also identified. 
PMID:3018129	Matlashewski G, Banks L, Wu-Liao J, Spence P, Pim D, Crawford L	J Gen Virol. 67 ( Pt 9):1909-16	1986	The expression of human papillomavirus type 18 E6 protein in bacteria and the production of anti-E6 antibodies. 	Human papillomavirus type 18 (HPV-18) has recently been closely linked with human malignant cervical lesions. The early region of the genome of the related bovine papillomavirus (BPV) has been shown to be important for the production of the transformed phenotype. BPV E6 has been shown to be a transforming protein. We report the primary structure of the HPV-18 E6 open reading frame and its predicted amino acid sequence. Both E6 protein and E6-beta-galactosidase fusion protein were synthesized in bacteria. Antisera were raised against the E6-beta-galactosidase fusion protein and against an E6 N-terminal peptide which was 14 amino acids long. We show that these antisera reacted on Western blots against E6 synthesized in bacteria. The HPV E6 antigen and antibodies described here will be useful in understanding HPV expression and its association with human malignancies and may also be diagnostically useful. 
PMID:3025349	Lee JW, Roy P	J Gen Virol. 67 ( Pt 12):2833-7	1986	Nucleotide sequence of a cDNA clone of RNA segment 10 of bluetongue virus (serotype 10). 	The complete sequence of the double-stranded RNA segment that codes for a non-structural protein (P8) of bluetongue virus serotype 10 has been determined from a cDNA clone inserted into the plasmid pBR322. The segment 10 RNA of the virus (S10 RNA) is deduced to be 822 base pairs long (0.5 X 10(6) daltons) and has an open reading frame in one strand capable of coding for a protein with a calculated size of 25,572 daltons (229 amino acids) and a net charge of +5.5 at neutral pH. 
PMID:3033289|PMCID:254145	Phelps WC, Howley PM	J Virol. 61(5):1630-8	1987	Transcriptional trans-activation by the human papillomavirus type 16 E2 gene product. 	We identified a conditional transcriptional enhancer in the long control region (LCR) of human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16). This conditional enhancer requires activation in trans by a product of the viral early-region open reading frames (ORFs). Primer extension analysis of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase RNA isolated from transiently transfected CV-1 cells demonstrated that trans-activation of the HPV-16 LCR enhancer operated at the transcriptional level. Mutational analysis of the early ORFs demonstrated that the conditional enhancer of the LCR was trans-activated by the product of the E2 ORF. The E2 gene product of bovine papillomavirus type 1, which can trans-activate the conditional enhancer in the bovine papillomavirus type 1 LCR, was also capable of trans-activating the E2-responsive enhancer of HPV-16. The activity of the HPV-16 LCR enhancer was also assayed in two human cervical carcinoma cell lines, HeLa and SiHa, which harbor transcriptionally active, integrated HPV-18 and HPV-16 DNA sequences, respectively. No endogenous E2 or E2-like activity was detected in either cell line. 
PMID:3040055	Ratner L, Fisher A, Jagodzinski LL, Mitsuya H, Liou RS, Gallo RC, Wong-Staal F	AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 3(1):57-69	1987	Complete nucleotide sequences of functional clones of the AIDS virus. 	To examine the mechanism of lymphocytotoxicity induced by human T-lymphotropic virus type III/lymphadenopathy associated virus (HTLV-III/LAV), an in vitro model has been developed. Introduction of an HTLV-III/LAV proviral clone, HXB2, into normal lymphocytes results in the production of virions and cell death. The complete nucleotide sequence of the proviral form of HXB2 has now been determined. Its structure is quite similar to that previously determined for HTLV-III/LAV clones whose biological capacities had not previously been demonstrated. The biological function of two additional clones of HTLV-III/LAV, BH10 and HXB3, are reported. Clone BH10 which lacks the 5' long terminal repeat sequences (LTR) and a portion of the 3' LTR is reconstituted by substituting the corresponding sequences of HXB2 and is shown to be capable of generating infectious cytopathic virions. Clone HXB3, which has been partially sequenced, is also found to be capable of producing lymphocytopathic virus. Clone HXB3 differs from HXB2 in its lack of a termination codon in 3' orf, demonstrating that 3' orf plays no major role in virus replication or cytopathic activity. These data provide the necessary background to allow the identification of viral determinants of replication, cytopathic activity, and antigenicity using these functional proviral clones. 
PMID:409854|PMCID:515937	Reilly BE, Nelson RA, Anderson DL	J Virol. 24(1):363-77	1977	Morphogenesis of bacteriophage phi 29 of Bacillus subtilis: mapping and functional analysis of the head fiber gene. 	A set of mutants of Bacillus subtilis bacteriophage phi29 unable to synthesize the head fiber protein has been identified by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography. Infectious phage are produced during restrictive infection. We have focused on mutant sus 8.5(900) because the mutation is suppressible by both the su(+3) and su(+44) hosts, and it can be mapped by three- and four-factor crosses. After restrictive infection with mutant sus 8.5(900), a fragment about 70% of the size of the normal fiber is produced as well as particles that are fast-sedimenting in sucrose gradients relative to phi29(+). These particles have the buoyant density of particles with the fibers removed and have the absolute plating efficiency of phi29(+). Fiber protein is absent from prohead as well as virion. A second set of mutants produces fiber protein with a slightly altered electrophoretic mobility. This type of fiber protein is either present or absent on both prohead and virion. A third class of mutants, typified by 914, produces a "normal" fiber, but a major head protein of altered electrophoretic mobility. After infection by this mutant, the fiber is absent from both prohead and virion, and the biological and physical properties of the 914(-) particle are similar to those of particles produced after infection of the su(-) host by sus8.5(900). These observations suggest that the head fiber is not an essential component of the prohead or virion and that the assembly process is efficient in the absence of fiber protein. Three- and four-factor genetic crosses have established the order sus8(769)-8(914)-sus8.5(900)-sus9(756) and indicate that cistrons 8 and 8.5 code for the major head protein and head fiber protein, respectively. 
PMID:4413519	Boklage CE, Wong EC, Bode VC	Virology. 61(1):22-8	1974	Functional abnormality of lambda phage particles from complemented FII-mutant lysates. 	 
PMID:6099661	Boursnell ME, Brown TD, Binns MM	Virus Res. 1(4):303-13	1984	Sequence of the membrane protein gene from avian coronavirus IBV. 	cDNA clones prepared from genomic RNA of coronavirus IBV have been sequenced. The nucleotide sequence for the complete 5' region of mRNA C, which is not present in mRNAs A and B, has been determined. A sequence of 1224 bases is presented which contains a long open reading frame predicting a polypeptide of molecular weight 25 443. This is in agreement with the molecular weight of 23 000 reported for the unglycosylated form of the membrane polypeptide. 
PMID:6296434|PMCID:256408	Oosterom-Dragon EA, Anderson CW	J Virol. 45(1):251-63	1983	Polypeptide structure and encoding location of the adenovirus serotype 2 late, nonstructural 33K protein. 	Radiochemical microsequence analysis of selected tryptic peptides of the adenovirus type 2 33K nonstructural protein has revealed the precise region of the genomic nucleotide sequence that encodes this protein. The initiation codon for the 33K protein lies 606 nucleotides to the right of the EcoRI restriction site at 70.7 map units and 281 nucleotides to the left of the postulated carboxyterminal codon of the adenovirus 100K protein. The coding regions for these two proteins thus overlap; however, the 33K protein is derived from the +1 frame with respect to the postulated 100K reading frame. Our results contradict an earlier published report suggesting that these two proteins share extensive amino acid sequence homology (N. Axelrod, Virology 87:366-383, 1978). The published nucleotide sequence of the Ad2 EcoRI-F fragment (70.7 to 75.9 map units) cannot accommodate in a single reading frame the peptide sequences of the 33K protein that we have determined. Sequence analysis of DNA fragments derived from virus has confirmed the published nucleotide sequence in all critical regions with respect to the coding region for the 33K protein. Consequently, our data are only consistent with the existence of an mRNA splice within the coding region for 33K. Consensus donor and acceptor splice sequences have been located that would predict the removal of 202 nucleotides from the transcripts for the 33K protein. Removal of these nucleotides would explain the structure of a peptide that cannot otherwise be directly encoded by the EcoRI-F fragment. Identification of the precise splice points by peptide sequencing has permitted a prediction of the complete amino acid sequence for the 33K protein. 
PMID:6302319|PMCID:255158	Danos O, Engel LW, Chen EY, Yaniv M, Howley PM	J Virol. 46(2):557-66	1983	Comparative analysis of the human type 1a and bovine type 1 papillomavirus genomes. 	The DNA sequences of the genomes of the bovine type 1 and human type 1a papillomaviruses were compared. The overall organization of both genomes is very similar. Three areas of maximal homology were found in the L1 and E1/E2 genes, and at the beginning of L2. The conservation of homologous amino acid sequences encoded in the open reading frames argues that these segments represent real genes or exons. Within these segments, however, only certain domains of the putative proteins are preferentially conserved. Two polypeptide chains show homologous arrangement of the cysteine residue clusters Cys-X-X-Cys, despite a lack of conservation of the rest of the amino acid sequence. A significant sequence divergence in a region where the three reading frames are open suggests that papillomavirus genomes have evolved not solely by accumulation of point mutations. Conserved sequences were also found in the noncoding region, and their possible involvement in regulation of viral gene expression is discussed. 
PMID:7503693	Upadhyaya NM, Yang M, Kositratana W, Ghosh A, Waterhouse PM	Arch Virol. 140(11):1945-56	1995	Molecular analysis of rice ragged stunt oryzavirus segment 9 and sequence conservation among isolates from Thailand and India. 	Nucleotide sequences of rice ragged stunt virus (RRSV) genome segment 9 (S9) from a Thai and an Indian isolate were determined. Both sequences are 1132 bp long, contain a single large open reading frame (ORF) spanning nucleotide residues 14 to 1027 and are capable of encoding a protein of 38.5K. The two isolates are 94.6% and 99.4% identical at the nucleotide and amino acid level, respectively. The authenticity of these coding sequences was confirmed by identifying a approximately 38K protein in the RRSV particle with an N-terminal amino acid sequence identical to that inferred from the S9 ORF. Furthermore, cDNA of S9 from each isolate incorporated into the bacterial expression vector pGEX3-X produced a fusion protein that reacted with antibodies raised against purified RRSV particles. Cleaving these fusion proteins with protease factor X liberated a approximately 38K polypeptide. 
PMID:7636476	Matthews DA, Russell WC	J Gen Virol. 76 ( Pt 8):1959-69	1995	Adenovirus protein-protein interactions: molecular parameters governing the binding of protein VI to hexon and the activation of the adenovirus 23K protease. 	A variety of recombinant proteins derived from protein pVI of human adenovirus type 2 (Ad2) were analysed for their ability to bind Ad2 hexon in vitro. As pVI is also required for activation of the adenovirus-coded protease, the same pVI derivatives were assessed for their ability to activate recombinant adenovirus-coded 23K protease. Two regions, between amino acid residues 48-74 and 233-239 of pVI, were required for the interaction with hexon. These regions are highly conserved amongst mastadenovirus pVI proteins. Both these regions are capable on their own of binding hexon weakly but must be provided in cis for strong hexon binding. In addition, we found evidence to indicate than conformation as well as sequence was important for good hexon binding in our assays. Authentic processing of the appropriate recombinant pVI derivatives, by the recombinant protease, was obtained without the addition of other cofactors. These findings are discussed in relation to the role of pVI in triggering the adenovirus maturation pathway. 
PMID:7636484	Goetz R, Maiss E	J Gen Virol. 76 ( Pt 8):2035-42	1995	The complete nucleotide sequence and genome organization of the mite-transmitted brome streak mosaic rymovirus in comparison with those of potyviruses. 	A virus isolate, designated as 11-Cal, originating from southern France has been identified as an isolate of the mite-transmitted brome streak mosaic rymovirus (BrSMV) by serological and morphological properties. BrSMV is a member of the genus Rymovirus of the family Potyviridae. The complete nucleotide sequence of the RNA genome of BrSMV has been determined. The assembled RNA is 9672 nucleotides in length, excluding a 3'-terminal poly(A)sequence. The RNA contains one open reading frame (ORF) of 9282 nucleotides coding for a polyprotein of 3093 amino acids. A comparison with typical potyvirus showed that BrSMV has a similar genome organization. The predicted cleavage sites of the polyprotein of BrSMV are similar to those of potyviruses. Nevertheless, unusual dipeptides are proposed in two cases. Based on the proposed location of the cleavage sites nine mature proteins are predicted. Specific motifs, described for potyviral polyproteins, are almost all present in the polyprotein of BrSMV, too. However, only an incomplete zinc-finger motif is present in the potential helper component and the motif for aphid transmission in the coat protein is not found. Several alignments of amino acid sequences showed less similarity between BrSMV and potyviruses than between different potyviruses. 
PMID:7637026|PMCID:189447	Sibilia M, Boniotti MB, Angoscini P, Capucci L, Rossi C	J Virol. 69(9):5812-5	1995	Two independent pathways of expression lead to self-assembly of the rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus capsid protein. 	The rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus capsid protein was expressed in insect cells either as an individual protein species, from a mRNA analogous to the viral subgenomic RNA, or as part of a polyprotein that included the viral 3C-like protease and the RNA polymerase. Both pathways of expression led to the assembly of viruslike particles morphologically and antigenically similar to purified virus. 
PMID:7666539|PMCID:189537	Wang S, Shuman S	J Virol. 69(10):6376-88	1995	Vaccinia virus morphogenesis is blocked by temperature-sensitive mutations in the F10 gene, which encodes protein kinase 2. 	Four previously isolated temperature-sensitive (ts) mutants of vaccinia virus WR (ts28, ts54, ts61, and ts15) composing a single complementation group have been mapped by marker rescue to the F10 open reading frame located within the genomic HindIII F DNA fragment. Sequencing of the F10 gene from wild-type and mutant viruses revealed single-amino-acid substitutions in the F10 polypeptide responsible for thermolabile growth. Although the ts mutants displayed normal patterns of viral protein synthesis, electron microscopy revealed a profound morphogenetic defect at the nonpermissive temperature (40 degrees C). Virion assembly was arrested at an early stage, with scant formation of membrane crescents and no progression to normal spherical immature particles. The F10 gene encodes a 52-kDa serine/threonine protein kinase (S. Lin and S. S. Broyles, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91:7653-7657, 1994). We expressed a His-tagged version of the wild-type, ts54, and ts61 F10 polypeptides in bacteria and purified these proteins by sequential nickel affinity and phosphocellulose chromatography steps. The wild-type F10 protein kinase activity was characterized in detail by using casein as a phosphate acceptor. Whereas the wild-type and ts61 kinases displayed similar thermal inactivation profiles, the ts54 kinase was thermosensitive in vitro. These findings suggest that protein phosphorylation plays an essential role at an early stage of virion assembly. 
PMID:7782775	Burns TM, Harding RM, Dale JL	J Gen Virol. 76 ( Pt 6):1471-82	1995	The genome organization of banana bunchy top virus: analysis of six ssDNA components. 	We have cloned, sequenced and analysed an additional five circular ssDNA components of banana bunchy top virus (BBTV) which we have called components 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. These components were present in all BBTV infections tested. Four of these components (components 3, 4, 5 and 6) had one large open reading frame (ORF) in the virion sense located 3' of a stem-loop structure. Each ORF had a potential TATA box and one or two potential polyadenylation signals associated with it and each polyadenylation signal had an associated GC-rich region containing the trinucleotide sequence TTG. A number of ORFs were identified in component 2 but none of these had appropriately located potential TATA boxes and polyadenylation signals associated with them. None of the ORF amino acid sequences nor the full DNA sequences of any of the components had significant sequence identity with any known protein or nucleic acid sequences. However, the ORF of component 4 encoded a 30 residue hydrophobic domain which may indicate that this ORF encoded a transmembrane protein. Further, the ORFs of components 3 and 5 potentially encoded proteins of about 20 kDa, the size of the BBTV coat protein. There were two regions of sequence identity between the five components described here and the previously described component 1. Each component contained a conserved stem-loop structure and a nonanucleotide potential TATA box which was 5' of the large virion-sense ORF in five of the components. The stem-loop structures were incorporated in a common region (CR-SL) of 69 nucleotides which was 62% identical between components. All six BBTV components also contained a major common region (CR-M) which was located 5' of the CR-SL in each component, in the non-coding region and was 76% identical over 92 nucleotides. Each CR-M contained a near-complete 16 nucleotide direct repeat and a GC-box which was similar to the rightward promoter element found in wheat dwarf geminivirus. From these results, BBTV appears to belong to an undescribed plant virus group which could also include subterranean clover stunt virus, coconut foliar decay virus, faba bean necrotic yellows virus and milk vetch dwarf virus. 
PMID:7852957	Grice AS, Lambden PR, Caul EO, Clarke IN	J Med Virol. 44(2):166-71	1994	Sequence conservation of the major outer capsid glycoprotein of human group C rotaviruses. 	Several outbreaks of Group C rotavirus infection have occurred in the United Kingdom, in one instance infection was associated with the death of a 4-month-old infant in the Bristol area. The origin of human group C rotavirus is unknown although there has been some speculation that porcine species may be a possible source of human infection. Direct reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction sequencing of VP7 genes from two UK outbreaks (Bristol and Preston) and sequence analysis from a sporadic case of infection from Brazil (Belem) showed that each of these genes was identical in size (1,063 bp) and has revealed a surprising level (97.8-99.8%) of gene sequence conservation. Sequence comparisons with an isolate from Japan imply that the human group C rotaviruses so far characterised originate from a recent common ancestor with a worldwide distribution. 
PMID:7886961	Maekinen K, Naess V, Tamm T, Truve E, Aaspollu A, Saarma M	Virology. 207(2):566-71	1995	The putative replicase of the cocksfoot mottle sobemovirus is translated as a part of the polyprotein by -1 ribosomal frameshift. 	The polyprotein of cocksfoot mottle sobemovirus (CfMV) is encoded by two overlapping open reading frames (ORF). The ORF 2a codes for the putative VPg and serine protease and the ORF 2b codes for the putative replicase. The consensus signals for a -1 ribosomal frameshifting event are found at the very beginning of the overlapping region of these ORFs. The shifty heptanucleotide in CfMV is UUUAAAC, and the secondary structure after the shifty sequence is predicted to be a stem-loop. In vitro translation of the CfMV RNA in wheat germ extract produced proteins of several sizes, including one of 100 kDa. According to the nucleotide sequence data, no single ORF is capable of directing the synthesis of a 100-kDa protein. A chimeric beta-glucuronidase-CfMV cDNA containing the entire ORF 2a and 2b overlap region including frameshift signals was constructed. A trans-frame protein of 108 kDa was produced from this construct with an efficiency of 26-29% by in vitro translation in wheat germ extract. CfMV is the first sobemovirus in which the putative replicase is reported to be produced as a part of a polyprotein by a -1 frameshift event. The replicases of the sobemoviruses are related to the luteovirus subgroup II replicases, which are known to be produced by -1 ribosomal frameshift. The reported amino acid sequences of the putative replicases of sobemo- and subgroup II luteoviruses were compared to that of the putative replicase of CfMV. This comparison revealed more extensive homology between these groups than previously reported. 
PMID:7931156	McLean GW, Abbotts AP, Parry ME, Marsden HS, Stow ND	J Gen Virol. 75 ( Pt 10):2699-706	1994	The herpes simplex virus type 1 origin-binding protein interacts specifically with the viral UL8 protein. 	The products of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) genes UL5, UL8 and UL52 form a complex in virus-infected cells that exhibits both DNA helicase and DNA primase activities. UL8 protein was purified from insect cells infected with a recombinant baculovirus and used to generate monoclonal antibodies (MAbs). MAb 0811 was shown to recognize the UL8 protein in both Western blots and immunoprecipitation assays and to co-precipitate the other two proteins in the complex from insect cells triply infected with recombinants expressing the UL5, UL8 and UL52 polypeptides. Experiments performed using extracts from doubly infected cells indicated that UL8 could interact separately with both the UL5 and UL52 proteins. Similar experiments using a recombinant virus that expressed the HSV-1 origin-binding protein (OBP), UL9, demonstrated a direct physical interaction between the helicase-primase complex and OBP which involved the UL8 subunit. The C-terminal DNA-binding domain of OBP is dispensable for this interaction, as evidenced by the ability of MAb 0811 to co-precipitate a truncated UL9 protein, containing only the N-terminal 535 amino acids, with UL8. 
PMID:7944948	Minafra A, Saldarelli P, Grieco F, Martelli GP	Arch Virol. 137(3-4):249-61	1994	Nucleotide sequence of the 3' terminal region of the RNA of two filamentous grapevine viruses. 	The 3' terminal region of grapevine virus A (GVA) and grapevine virus B (GVB), encompassing 1883 and 2136 nucleotides, respectively, was sequenced by the deoxynucleotide chain termination method. Three putative open reading frames (ORF) were identified in both genomic viral RNAs, denoted 1 to 3 in the 5' to 3' direction. ORF 1 encoded a polypeptide with estimated M(r) of 31 kDa (GVA) and 36.5 kDa (GVB), possessing the G/D motif of the "30 K superfamily" movement proteins, and showing good alignments with putative movement proteins of trichoviruses and capilloviruses. ORF 2 was identified as the coat protein (CP) cistron, coding for polypeptides with an estimated M(r) of 21.5 kDa (GVA) and 21.6 kDa (GVB). These CPs showed substantial sequence homology with one another and with CPs of tricho- and capilloviruses, but not of closteroviruses. ORF 3 potentially coded for two small polypeptides with estimated M(r) of 10 kDa (GVA) and 14 kDa (GVB). The ORF 3 product of GVB (14 K), but not that of GVA, shared some homology with the 3' terminal polypeptides of different plant viruses that exhibit the "zinc finger domain" of proteins with nucleic acid-binding properties. GVA and GVB have many properties in common with trichoviruses but possess an extra open reading frame (ORF 3). Whether this finding may have a bearing on the classification of these viruses is unclear. However, until the taxonomic significance of this difference in genome structure is established, it seems plausible to include GVA and GVB as tentative species in the Trichovirus genus. 
PMID:7986401	Denner J, Norley S, Kurth R	AIDS. 8(8):1063-72	1994	The immunosuppressive peptide of HIV-1: functional domains and immune response in AIDS patients. 	To study the biological properties of the immunosuppressive peptide (ISU-peptide) of HIV-1, a 17-mer corresponding to the amino-acid domain 583-599 of the transmembrane glycoprotein gp41 of HIV-1. This peptide exhibits sequence homology to the highly conserved ISU-peptide of type C and D retroviruses. Also, to study the immune response against the corresponding gp41 epitope in AIDS patients. The ISU-peptide and control peptides were synthesized and tested for immunosuppressive activity in different in vitro lymphocyte proliferation assays. Antibody responses were tested using a peptide enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A new property of the ISU-peptide, inhibition of HIV-1 replication, was investigated using a cytopathogenicity assay. The ISU-peptide of HIV-1 and the immunosuppressive peptides of type C and type D retroviruses possess similar functional properties. They inhibit mitogen-induced and lymphokine-dependent T-lymphocyte proliferation, they are interspecies-reactive, they must be conjugated to a carrier protein in order to be immunosuppressive, and their N-terminal octamers represent the minimal immunosuppressive domain. HIV-infected individuals develop antibodies against an epitope located at the C-terminal end of the ISU-peptide and the number of responders and antibody titres decrease during progression to AIDS. In addition to its immunosuppressive activity, the ISU-peptide of HIV-1 inhibits the cytopathic effect of HIV-1 on human MT4 cells, suggesting interference with virus replication. The immunosuppressive property of the ISU-peptide suggests that gp41 might contribute to the development of AIDS. The evolutionary conservation of the immunosuppressive domain and the ability of the corresponding ISU-peptide to inhibit HIV replication suggest that this domain plays an important role in the life cycle of HIV-1. 
PMID:7996133	Ruffing M, Heid H, Kleinschmidt JA	J Gen Virol. 75 ( Pt 12):3385-92	1994	Mutations in the carboxy terminus of adeno-associated virus 2 capsid proteins affect viral infectivity: lack of an RGD integrin-binding motif. 	Using site-directed mutagenesis, we tested whether a potential integrin-binding site, (composed of the amino acids RGD) which is predicted in the adeno-associated virus 2 (AAV-2) capsid open reading frame (ORF), plays a role in the infectivity of AAV-2. Nucleotide sequencing of wild-type and mutant capsid protein-coding sequences, however, revealed discrepancies with the published sequence data at several positions, including a frameshift in the carboxy terminus which cancels the RGD motif and extends the capsid ORF by 27 amino acids. This sequence was confirmed by protein sequencing of proteolytic fragments of VP3. Thus, the virus mutant (pTAV-p), in which the intention was to exchange D of the putative RGD motif for E, resulted in replacing I480 by S in the newly established ORF. A second virus mutant (pTAV-d), in which the intention was to delete the RGD peptide, in fact gave a shift into the ORF of the originally published sequence. The pTAV-p mutant showed a strongly reduced infectivity compared to wild-type AAV-2, whereas pTAV-d was not infectious at all. Neither mutant accumulated viral ssDNA as detected by Hirt extraction. Analysis of virus particle formation and subcellular localization of the capsid proteins revealed a defect of the mutant capsid proteins in capsid assembly. This shows that the newly established C-terminal sequence of the AAV capsid proteins plays an important role in viral assembly. 
PMID:7996137	Lappin DF, Nakitare GW, Palfreyman JW, Elliott RM	J Gen Virol. 75 ( Pt 12):3441-51	1994	Localization of Bunyamwera bunyavirus G1 glycoprotein to the Golgi requires association with G2 but not with NSm. 	The Bunyamwera bunyavirus (BUN) M RNA genome segment encodes three proteins, two glycoproteins termed G1 and G2 and a non-structural protein called NSm, in the form of a polyprotein precursor that is co-translationally cleaved to give the mature proteins. Indirect immunofluorescence experiments have shown that these proteins localize to the Golgi complex in BUN-infected cells. We have used a recombinant vaccinia virus (vTF7-3), which expresses bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase, to drive the expression of plasmids containing either the entire BUN M segment cDNA or fragments that encode the G1, G2 and NSm proteins separately under control of the T7 promoter. After transfection of these plasmids into vTF7-3-infected cells, correctly sized and processed proteins were detected by immunoprecipitation with BUN-specific antibodies. Immunofluorescence experiments showed that G1, G2 and NSm localized to the Golgi when transiently expressed from the full-length cDNA. When G2 or NSm were expressed separately they also localized to the Golgi, but when G1 was expressed alone a staining pattern typical for the endoplasmic reticulum was obtained. However coexpression of G2 and G1 from independent plasmids resulted in G1 localizing to the Golgi. In contrast translocation of G1 to the Golgi was not observed when G1 was coexpressed with NSm, although NSm itself was still detected in the Golgi. Similar results were obtained when the proteins were expressed from transfected plasmids containing the G2-, NSm- or G1-coding sequences under control of the cytomegalovirus immediate-early promoter. The localization of G1 to the Golgi when coexpressed with G2 was confirmed by the loss of endoglycosidase H (endo H) sensitivity of G1 after approximately 60 min in a pulse-chase experiment; G1 remained sensitive to endo H when expressed either alone or in combination with NSm. These results suggest that G2 contains the Golgi targeting and/or retention signals and that G1 has to interact with this protein to localize to this cellular compartment. 
PMID:8053146	Casini G, Revel HR	Virology. 203(2):221-8	1994	A new small low-abundant nonstructural protein encoded by the L segment of the dsRNA bacteriophage phi 6. 	A new small low-abundant protein encoded by the large genome segment of bacteriophage phi 6 has been detected in extracts of Escherichia coli bearing phi 6 cDNA clones and in extracts of phage-infected Pseudomonas phaseolicola. This 62 amino acid protein, designated P14, has a net charge of +2 at pH 7.0. Gene 14 has been located by deletion analysis and N-terminal protein sequence. Expression of P14 is down-regulated in E. coli when the complete L segment clone is expressed. Polyclonal antibodies to P14 detected the new protein in small amounts in phage-infected cells but not in phi 6 virions or nucleocapsids, or in procapsids assembled in E. coli. Procapsids assembled in E. coli after expression of phi 6 L segment clones with or without gene 14 had essentially similar protein composition and activity in an in vitro packaging and replication system. Thus P14 does not appear to be essential for the structure or assembly of functional procapsids. P14 might, however, facilitate packaging in vivo. Alternatively this protein could play in a role in repair of host membranes following viral penetration. 
PMID:8102411|PMCID:237930	Rodriguez JM, Yanez RJ, Almazan F, Vinuela E, Rodriguez JF	J Virol. 67(9):5312-20	1993	African swine fever virus encodes a CD2 homolog responsible for the adhesion of erythrocytes to infected cells. 	We have identified an open reading frame, EP402R, within the EcoRI E' fragment of the African swine fever virus genome that encodes a polypeptide of 402 amino acid residues homologous to the adhesion receptor of T cells, CD2. Transcription of EP402R takes place during the late phase of virus replication. The disruption of EP402R, achieved through the replacement of a 354-bp-long fragment from within EP402R by the marker gene lacZ, does not affect the virus growth rate in vitro but abrogates the ability of the virus to induce the adsorption of pig erythrocytes to the surface of infected cells. This result demonstrates that the protein encoded by EP402R is directly involved in the hemadsorption phenomenon induced by the infection of susceptible cells with African swine fever virus. 
PMID:8122363	Abuladze NK, Gingery M, Tsai J, Eiserling FA	Virology. 199(2):301-10	1994	Tail length determination in bacteriophage T4. 	This report identifies a protein that regulates tail length in bacteriophage T4. Earlier work (Duda et al., 1990) suggested that the gene 29 protein could be involved in T4 tail length determination as a "template" or "tape-measure", similar to that proposed for the gene H protein in bacteriophage lambda. We have altered the length of a recombinant gene 29 by constructing deletions and duplications in different parts of the gene. Each of these constructs was incorporated into the high-level expression vector, pET-11d. Seven plasmids with different lengths of gene 29 were made and used in complementation studies. We have found that the length of the tail can be decreased by deleting the C-terminal part of gene 29 or increased by forming duplications in different parts of this gene, and that the length of the tail can be proportional to the size of the engineered protein. Unlike phage lambda, plasmids with deletions in the middle of gene 29 or from the N-terminal end produced correspondingly smaller but inactive gene 29 protein and no viable phage were formed. Our results show that alterations in the length of gene 29 protein proportionately alters tail length, and argue strongly for a scheme in which 29 protein is a ruler or template that determines tail length during tail assembly. 
PMID:8184531	Herchenroeder O, Renne R, Loncar D, Cobb EK, Murthy KK, Schneider J, Mergia A, Luciw PA	Virology. 201(2):187-99	1994	Isolation, cloning, and sequencing of simian foamy viruses from chimpanzees (SFVcpz): high homology to human foamy virus (HFV). 	Several independent isolates of simian foamy viruses (SFV) were recovered from chimpanzee B-cell lines. One isolate, designated SFVcpz, was molecularly cloned and sequenced. In addition, the genome of SFV type 6 (SFV-6), an independent chimpanzee foamy virus isolate, was partially cloned. The SFVcpz provirus is 13,246 base pairs (bp) long. It is flanked by long terminal repeats (LTRs) and encodes the genes gag, pol, env, the transcriptional transactivator taf, and a second 3' open reading frame (orf-2). DNA sequences of molecular clones derived from the pol, env, and orf-2 genes of SFV-6 are almost identical to those of SFVcpz. DNA and deduced protein sequences of SFVcpz show high homologies to human foamy virus (HFV), whereas both SFV-1 from a rhesus macaque and SFV-3 from an African green monkey are phylogenetically further distant viruses. Amino acid homologies between corresponding genes of SFVcpz and HFV range between 86% for the taf gene and 95% for the pol gene. Comparisons of taf and pol of SFVcpz with SFV-1 and SFV-3 show 40 and 78% homology, respectively. The SFVcpz LTR consists of 1760 bp and is in the same size range as the LTRs of SFV-1 and -3, but significantly larger than the known HFV LTR. These comparisons reveal that a region approximately 500 bp long is missing in the HFV LTR. We also isolated and sequenced an LTR of a wild-type HFV provirus which aligns with high homology to the SFVcpz LTR without major gaps. Based on sequence comparisons in this report, primate foamy viruses may be arranged into different clusters with SFVcpz and HFV forming one cluster and SFV-1 and SFV-3 as prototypes for two unique clusters. 
PMID:8237108	Sanchez A, Kiley MP, Holloway BP, Auperin DD	Virus Res. 29(3):215-40	1993	Sequence analysis of the Ebola virus genome: organization, genetic elements, and comparison with the genome of Marburg virus. 	Sequence analysis of the second through the sixth genes of the Ebola virus (EBO) genome indicates that it is organized similarly to rhabdoviruses and paramyxoviruses and is virtually the same as Marburg virus (MBG). In vitro translation experiments and predicted amino acid sequence comparisons showed that the order of the EBO genes is: 3'-NP-VP35-VP40-GP-VP30-VP24-L. The transcriptional start and stop (polyadenylation) signals are conserved and all contain the sequence 3'-UAAUU. Three base intergenic sequences are present between the NP and VP35 genes (3'-GAU) and VP40 and GP genes (3'-AGC), and a large intergenic sequence of 142 bases separates the VP30 and VP24 genes. Novel gene overlaps were found between the VP35 and VP40, the GP and VP30, and the VP24 and L genes. Overlaps are 20 or 18 bases in length and are limited to the conserved sequences determined for the transcriptional signals. Stem-and-loop structures were identified in the putative (+) leader RNA and at the 5' end of each mRNA. Hybridization studies showed that a small second mRNA is transcribed from the glycoprotein gene, and is produced by termination of transcription at an atypical polyadenylation signal located in the middle of the coding region. The predicted amino acid sequence of the glycoprotein contains an N-terminal signal peptide sequence, a hydrophobic anchor sequence, and 17 potential N-linked glycosylation sites. Alignment of predicted amino acid sequences showed that the structural proteins of EBO and MBG contain large regions of homology despite the absence of serologic cross-reactivity. 
PMID:8279955	Haeberle AM, Stussi-Garaud C, Schmitt C, Garaud JC, Richards KE, Guilley H, Jonard G	Arch Virol. 134(1-2):195-203	1994	Detection by immunogold labelling of P75 readthrough protein near an extremity of beet necrotic yellow vein virus particles. 	RNA 2 of beet necrotic yellow vein virus carries the cistron for the 21 kd coat protein at its 5'-extremity. During translation, the coat protein cistron termination codon is suppressed about 10% of the time so that translation continues into the adjacent open reading frame to produce a 75 kd species, known as P75, which contains the coat protein sequence at its N-terminus. Immunoblotting experiments with a P75-specific antiserum showed that P75 is present in only trace amounts in purified virus preparations. Electron microscopic visualization of immunogold-labelled virions in crude tissue extracts has provided evidence for an association between P75 and at least a fraction of the BNYVV particles, with P75 being predominantly located near one end of the rod-shaped virions. This finding is discussed in the context of the current model for the role of P75 in virus assembly and vector transmission. 
PMID:8331731|PMCID:237878	Lu MJ, Stierhof YD, Henning U	J Virol. 67(8):4905-13	1993	Location and unusual membrane topology of the immunity protein of the Escherichia coli phage T4. 	The immunity protein (Imm) encoded by the Escherichia coli phage T4 effects exclusion of phage superinfecting cells already infected with T4. The 83-residue polypeptide possesses two long lipophilic areas (from residues 3 to 32 and 37 to 65) interrupted by a hydrophilic stretch including two positively charged residues. The charge distribution of the protein very strongly suggested that it is a plasma membrane protein with the C terminus facing the periplasm. While it could be shown that the expected location was correct, fusions of Imm to alkaline phosphatase or beta-galactosidase showed that the C terminus was at the cytosolic side of the membrane. Also, concerning function, there was almost no structural specificity to this part of the protein. Even removal of the two positively charged residues did not completely abolish function. Evidence suggesting that Imm is associated with the membrane at specific sites is presented. It is proposed that Imm is localized to the membrane with the help of a receptor and that, therefore, it does not follow the established rules for the topology of other membrane proteins. The results also suggest that Imm acts indirectly, possibly by altering the conformation of a component of a phage DNA injection site. 
PMID:8346669	Bi SL, Purdy MA, McCaustland KA, Margolis HS, Bradley DW	Virus Res. 28(3):233-47	1993	The sequence of hepatitis E virus isolated directly from a single source during an outbreak in China. 	In this study an IgM antibody-mediated antigen-capture procedure for direct extraction of hepatitis E virus (HEV) RNA from clinical specimens was developed and used with an efficient method for generating viral cDNA that was subsequently sequenced using the dideoxy chain termination method. This is the first time the complete HEV genome has been isolated directly from a single human clinical specimen obtained during an outbreak of enterically transmitted non-A, non-B hepatitis. When the Chinese-derived sequence was compared with the original isolate of Burmese HEV from an experimentally infected cynomolgus macaque, the homology between the two sequences was 94% and 98.5% at the nucleotide and amino acid levels, respectively. The methods we developed for generating and sequencing genomic HEV cDNA dramatically improved the efficiency of cloning the viral genome and should be helpful for continued analysis of this virus as well as other RNA viruses that have proven to be difficult to clone and sequence directly. 
PMID:8392607|PMCID:237853	Smith CA, Bates P, Rivera-Gonzalez R, Gu B, DeLuca NA	J Virol. 67(8):4676-87	1993	ICP4, the major transcriptional regulatory protein of herpes simplex virus type 1, forms a tripartite complex with TATA-binding protein and TFIIB. 	The ICP4 protein of herpes simplex virus can either increase or decrease the rate of transcription mediated by RNA polymerase II, depending on the target promoter. The interplay of DNA-protein and protein-protein contacts determining ICP4 function has yet to be characterized, and consequently the molecular mechanism by which the protein acts remains unclear. ICP4 can transactivate minimal promoters containing only TATA homologies, and therefore it is reasonable to hypothesize that ICP4 works by influencing the TATA-dependent assembly of general transcription factors via specific protein-protein interactions. This study directly addresses this hypothesis by determining whether ICP4 affects the assembly of general transcription factors on templates bearing a TATA box and an ICP4-binding site. Using gel retardation and footprinting assays, we found that ICP4 forms a tripartite complex with TFIIB and either the TATA-binding protein (TBP) or TFIID. The formation of this complex was not the result of simple tripartite occupancy of the DNA but the consequence of protein-protein interactions. In the presence of all three proteins, the affinity of ICP4 and TBP for their respective binding sites was substantially increased. Using mutant derivatives of ICP4 and defective versions of promoters, we also demonstrated that the ability of ICP4 to regulate gene expression correlated with its ability to form a tripartite complex with TFIIB and TBP in vitro. 
PMID:8421901	Lin C, Chambers TJ, Rice CM	Virology. 192(2):596-604	1993	Mutagenesis of conserved residues at the yellow fever virus 3/4A and 4B/5 dibasic cleavage sites: effects on cleavage efficiency and polyprotein processing. 	Flavivirus proteins are produced by co- and post-translational proteolytic processing of a large polyprotein using both host- and virus-encoded enzymes. The flavivirus serine proteinase, which consists of NS2B and NS3, is responsible for cleavages of at least four dibasic sites in the nonstructural region. In this study, a number of substitutions for the conserved amino acids flanking the 3/4A and 4B/5 dibasic cleavage sites [Arg(P2)-Arg(P1) decreases Gly(P1')] were examined for their effects on yellow fever virus (YF) polyprotein processing. The substrate for these studies was a truncated YF polyprotein, called sig2A-5(356), which consists of a signal sequence fused to NS2A and extending through the first 356 amino acids of NS5. At the P1' position (Gly) of the 4B/5 site, only Ser and Ala were allowed while six other substitutions abolished cleavage. Substitutions of the 4B/5 P1 Arg residue with Lys, Gln, Asn, or His were tolerated while replacement with Glu eliminated cleavage. The 4B/5 P2 position (Arg) was found to be tolerant of substitutions with polar or hydrophobic residues which allowed varying degrees of partial cleavage. Previous studies have shown that cleavage at the 3/4A site is incomplete in YF-infected cells and that the cleavage efficiency at this site is significantly less for the sig2A-5(356) polyprotein. Replacement of the 3/4A P1 Arg residue with noncharged polar or hydrophobic residues reduced the cleavage efficiency, whereas substitutions with Glu or Pro abolished cleavage. Studies with polyproteins containing one or both of the 3/4A and 4B/5 cleavage sites blocked indicate that there is not an obligatory processing order for cleavages generating the N termini of YF NS4A, NS4B, and NS5. 
PMID:8445361	Harding RM, Burns TM, Hafner G, Dietzgen RG, Dale JL	J Gen Virol. 74 ( Pt 3):323-8	1993	Nucleotide sequence of one component of the banana bunchy top virus genome contains a putative replicase gene. 	One DNA component of the banana bunchy top virus (BBTV) genome was cloned and sequenced. This component is present as a circular, ssDNA in the virions and consists of 1111 nucleotides. It contains one large open reading frame (ORF) of 858 nucleotides in the virion sense; this ORF encodes a putative replicase based on the presence of a dNTP-binding motif (GGEGKT). Two smaller ORFs (249 and 366 nucleotides), in the complementary orientation, could not be assigned any obvious function. Neither of these ORFs had significant sequence homology with any known DNA plant virus gene or gene product. Computer analysis of this component-predicted a strong stem-loop structure in the virion sense putative untranslated region; a nonanucleotide sequence in the loop was nearly identical to the nonanucleotide invariant loop sequence of geminiviruses and coconut foliar decay virus. There is strong evidence that the genome of BBTV consists of more than one component because no ORF was found that would encode a protein the size of the BBTV coat protein. BBTV has some characteristics in common with geminiviruses but cannot be classified as one. Rather, BBTV probably belongs to an undescribed plant virus group which could also include subterranean clover stunt virus and coconut foliar decay virus. 
PMID:8525614	Jackson RL, Spadafora D, Perrault J	Virology. 214(1):189-97	1995	Hierarchal constitutive phosphorylation of the vesicular stomatitis virus P protein and lack of effect on P1 to P2 conversion. 	In vitro reconstitution of a transcriptionally active VSV polymerase complex (P:L) reportedly requires phosphorylation of the N-terminal domain of P by CKII. Two constitutively phosphorylated sites have been implicated in this activation for both VSV Indiana and New Jersey serotype P proteins. We show here that, in contrast to New Jersey, the Indiana P protein is constitutively phosphorylated on three sites in vivo. The evidence rests on assessing the phosphorylation status of transfected P gene constructs containing all possible combinations of Ala substitutions at Ser60, Thr62, and Ser64. All mutants containing the T62A substitution showed a reduced level of phosphorylation and yielded no P-Thr. Surprisingly the S60A/S64A mutant behaved like the triple substitution and displayed no significant phosphorylation, while the S64A mutant yielded no P-Thr. Phosphorylation of Thr62 therefore depended on prior modification of Ser64. We also tested the ability of our mutant P proteins to convert to the more highly phosphorylated P2 species, a modification essential for transcription in the New Jersey serotype and thought to be carried out by an L-protein-associated kinase. All of our transfected mutant P proteins readily converted to P2 in the presence or absence of L cotransfection, and the latter had no significant effect on P phosphorylation. We conclude that VSV Indiana P protein differs in significant ways from New Jersey P. It is hierarchically and constitutively phosphorylated on a cluster of three sites, not two, suggesting that an additional kinase may be involved. Moreover, Indiana P1 to P2 conversion is independent of prior constitutive phosphorylation and does not require the presence of L protein. 
PMID:8572943	Georgopoulou U, Kakkanas A, Miriagou V, Michaelidou A, Mavromara P	Arch Virol. 140(12):2227-41	1995	Characterization of the US8.5 protein of herpes simplex virus. 	In a previous study a novel gene designated as US8.5 was identified in the unique short component of the herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1) genome. Epitope tagging experiments suggested the existence of a protein encoded by this gene in HSV1 infected cells. To further analyze the US8.5 gene product and function, a rabbit polyclonal antiserum was raised against a recombinant beta-galactosidase-US8.5 fusion protein expressed in E. coli. This antiserum reacted specifically with a 19 kDa protein in HSV1(F) infected cells as shown by immunoblotting and immunoprecipitation experiments. In addition, using the same antiserum a 21 kDa protein was detected in lysates from cells infected with HSV2(G), which was most likely the HSV2 homolog of US8.5. Kinetic studies indicated that US8.5 is expressed as gamma 1 gene. In addition, the US8.5 protein was immunoprecipitated with the anti-US8.5 serum from 32P-labeled lysates of Vero cells infected with HSV1, demonstrating that the protein is phosphorylated. Immunofluorescence studies localized the US8.5 protein to the nucleoli of HSV1 infected cells. 
PMID:8578857	Morzunov SP, Winton JR, Nichol ST	Virus Res. 38(2-3):175-92	1995	The complete genome structure and phylogenetic relationship of infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus. 	Infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV), a member of the family Rhabdoviridae, causes a severe disease with high mortality in salmonid fish. The nucleotide sequence (11,131 bases) of the entire genome was determined for the pathogenic WRAC strain of IHNV from southern Idaho. This allowed detailed analysis of all 6 genes, the deduced amino acid sequences of their encoded proteins, and important control motifs including leader, trailer and gene junction regions. Sequence analysis revealed that the 6 virus genes are located along the genome in the 3' to 5' order: nucleocapsid (N), polymerase-associated phosphoprotein (P or M1), matrix protein (M or M2), surface glycoprotein (G), a unique non-virion protein (NV) and virus polymerase (L). The IHNV genome RNA was found to have highly complementary termini (15 of 16 nucleotides). The gene junction regions display the highly conserved sequence UCURUC(U)7RCCGUG(N)4CACR (in the vRNA sense), which includes the typical rhabdovirus transcription termination/polyadenylation signal and a novel putative transcription initiation signal. Phylogenetic analysis of M, G and L protein sequences allowed insights into the evolutionary and taxonomic relationship of rhabdoviruses of fish relative to those of insects or mammals, and a broader sense of the relationship of non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses. Based on these data, a new genus, piscivirus, is proposed which will initially contain IHNV, viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus and Hirame rhabdovirus. 
PMID:8607283	Lapatschek MS, Marschall M, Meier-Ewert H	Virus Res. 39(1):47-54	1995	The persistent variant of influenza C virus carries one characteristic point mutation in RNA segment 1. 	Influenza C/ Ann Arbor/1/50-pi(C/AA-pi) virus causes persistent infections in MDCK and Wi38 cells, but sets limited, wild-type like infections in other cells. Concluding that persistence itself it dependent on the host environment, we determined the nucleotide sequence of the C/AA-pi analogous gene to the basic polymerase 2 (PB2) of influenza A virus, which is known to be a determinant for the host range. C/AA-pi and the parental wild-type virus (C/AA-wt) have 16 nucleotides in common that are different to a previously published PB2 sequence (C/JJ/50). These variations, which are probably due to divergent passages histories, are scattered along the sequence and are partially found in another published isolate (C/Berlin/1/85). One single mutation, however, is unique to the persistent variant. Nucleotide 28 mutated from T to C which leads to a change of amino acid 3 from Leu to Phe. This substitution is stably associated with the persistent phenotype throughout multiple passages in different cells lines and eggs and cannot be found in any other influenza C viruses. 
PMID:8634028	Jiang B, Tsunemitsu H, Dennehy PH, Oishi I, Brown D, Schnagl RD, Oseto M, Fang ZY, Avendano LF, Saif LJ, Glass RI	Arch Virol. 141(2):381-90	1996	Sequence conservation and expression of the gene encoding the outer capsid glycoprotein among human group C rotaviruses of global distribution. 	Group C rotaviruses have been identified recently from fecal samples of children with diarrhea in the United States. Using reverse transcriptasepolymerase chain reaction and sequence analysis, we sequenced gene 8s encoding VP7 from two U.S. strains (RI-1 and RI-2), and eight other strains isolated from patients on four continents, and compared these with the sequences of four published strains. The gene 8s of the 14 strains were remarkably conserved in size and in predicted primary and secondary structures. When the sequences of the human VP7s were compared with that of the prototype porcine Cowden strain, six regions were found variable in both deduced primary and predicted secondary structures, four of which were predicted to be hydrophilic and might determine serotype specificity. Gene 8 of the human S-1 strain was further characterized by expression in recombinant baculoviruses. The expressed product was immunogenic but failed to elicit neutralizing antibodies. Our sequence analysis indicates that all the human strains characterized to date belong to a single G genotype, which may constitute a single G serotype, pending further antigenic analysis. Whether the human strains and the Cowden strain are the same serotype remains to be determined. 
PMID:8645093	Kobayashi M, Toyoda T, Ishihama A	Arch Virol. 141(3-4):525-39	1996	Influenza virus PB1 protein is the minimal and essential subunit of RNA polymerase. 	RNA polymerase of influenza virus with the subunit structure PB1-PB2-PA is involved in both transcription and replication of the genome RNA. The RNA polymerase with transcription activity was reconstituted from three P proteins, which were separately isolated from insect cells infected with recombinant baculoviruses, each carrying cDNA for one P protein. Nuclear extracts of the insect cells infected with each of the recombinant baculoviruses or various combinations of these viruses were examined for transcription and replication activities. The nuclear extract of cells expressing all three P proteins catalyzed model template-directed RNA synthesis in the absence of primers (an indication of RNA replication), supporting the notion that the complete set of three P proteins is required for RNA replication. All the nuclear extracts containing the PB1 subunit, including the extract containing PB1 alone, were able to catalyze model template-directed dinucleotide-primed RNA synthesis (an indication of transcription). These observations not only confirm that the PB1 protein is a catalytic subunit of influenza virus RNA polymerase, but also indicate that PB1 alone is able to catalyze RNA synthesis in the absence of PB2 and PA subunits. 
PMID:8648710|PMCID:190251	Roper RL, Payne LG, Moss B	J Virol. 70(6):3753-62	1996	Extracellular vaccinia virus envelope glycoprotein encoded by the A33R gene. 	With the aid of three monoclonal antibodies (MAbs), a glycoprotein specifically localized to the outer envelope of vaccinia virus was shown to be encoded by the A33R gene. These MAbs reacted with a glycosylated protein that migrated as 23- to 28-kDa and 55-kDa species under reducing and nonreducing conditions, respectively. The protein recognized by the three MAbs was synthesized by all 11 orthopoxviruses tested: eight strains of vaccinia virus (including modified vaccinia virus Ankara) and one strain each of cowpox, rabbitpox, and ectromelia viruses. The observation that the protein synthesized by ectromelia virus-infected cells reacted with only one of the three MAbs provided a means of mapping the gene encoding the glycoprotein. By transfecting vaccinia virus DNA into cells infected with ectromelia virus and assaying for MAb reactivity, we mapped the glycoprotein to the A33R open reading frame. The amino acid sequence and hydrophilicity plot predicted that the A33R gene product is a type II membrane protein with two asparagine-linked glycosylation sites. Triton X-114 partitioning experiments indicated that the A33R gene product is an integral membrane protein. The ectromelia virus homolog of the vaccinia virus A33R gene was sequenced, revealing 90% predicted amino acid identity. The vaccinia and variola virus homolog sequences predict 94% identical amino acids, the latter having one fewer internal amino acid. Electron microscopy revealed that the A33R gene product is expressed on the surface of extracellular enveloped virions but not on the intracellular mature form of virus. The conservation of this protein and its specific incorporation into viral envelopes suggest that it is important for virus dissemination. 
PMID:8725113	Shchelkunov SN, Totmenin AV, Sandakhchiev LS	Virus Res. 40(2):169-83	1996	Analysis of the nucleotide sequence of 23.8 kbp from the left terminus of the genome of variola major virus strain India-1967. 	Sequencing and computer analysis of the nucleotide sequence of variola major virus strain India-1967 (VAR-IND) DNA segment (23 786 bp) covering the left variable region of the viral genome has been carried out. Twenty-nine potential open reading frames were identified. Structure-function organization of the VAR-IND DNA segment was compared with previously reported sequences from analogous genome regions of vaccinia virus strains Copenhagen (VAC-COP) and Western Reserve (VAC-WR). Multiple structural differences between the VAR-IND and genome regions were analysed and both VAC-COP and VAC-WR have been found. Possible molecular factors of virulence, virus host range genes as well as differences revealed in the structure of these genes of VAR and VAC will be discussed. 
PMID:8757975	Tamada T, Schmitt C, Saito M, Guilley H, Richards K, Jonard G	J Gen Virol. 77 ( Pt 7):1359-67	1996	High resolution analysis of the readthrough domain of beet necrotic yellow vein virus readthrough protein: a KTER motif is important for efficient transmission of the virus by Polymyxa betae. 	The 5'-terminal cistron of beet necrotic yellow vein furovirus RNA 2 encodes the 21 kDa major viral coat protein and terminates with an amber stop codon which can undergo suppression to give rise to a 75 kDa readthrough (RT) protein referred to as P75. P75 is a minor component of virions and the 54 kDa RT domain following the coat protein sequence is important both for virus assembly and transmission by the fungal vector Polymyxa betae. To better define the regions of the RT domain involved in these two steps, RNA 2 transcripts encoding different in-frame RT domain deletion mutants were tested for their ability to form virions when inoculated to plants with the other viral RNAs and to be fungus-transmitted. All deletions in the N-terminal half of the RT domain interfered with virus assembly and partially or completely inhibited fungus transmission. A 4 1 1 nucleotide deletion within the C-terminal half of the RT domain did not inhibit assembly but blocked fungus transmission of the virus. Alanine scanning mutagenesis within the aforesaid 4 1 1 nucleotide subdomain identified a peptide motif (KTER) which is important for the fungus transmission process. 
PMID:8760418	Wutz G, Auer H, Nowotny N, Grosse B, Skern T, Kuechler E	J Gen Virol. 77 ( Pt 8):1719-30	1996	Equine rhinovirus serotypes 1 and 2: relationship to each other and to aphthoviruses and cardioviruses. 	Equine rhinoviruses (ERVs) are picornaviruses which cause a mild respiratory infection in horses. The illness resembles the common cold brought about by rhinoviruses in humans; however, the presence of a viraemia during ERV-1 infection, the occurrence of persistent infections and the physical properties are all more reminiscent of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV). cDNA cloning and sequencing of the genomes of ERV-1 and ERV-2 between the poly(C) and poly(A) tracts showed that the serotypes are heterogeneous. Nevertheless, the genomic architecture of both serotypes is most similar to that of FMDV. Indeed, a comparison of the derived protein sequences of ERV-1 shows that their identity is greatest to FMDV. In contrast, most ERV-2 proteins are more related to encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) proteins than they are to FMDV or ERV-1. These results place ERV-1 alongside FMDV in the aphthovirus genus of the picornavirus family and indicate that this virus may serve as a model system for examining the biology of FMDV. 
PMID:8806496	Muylaert IR, Chambers TJ, Galler R, Rice CM	Virology. 222(1):159-68	1996	Mutagenesis of the N-linked glycosylation sites of the yellow fever virus NS1 protein: effects on virus replication and mouse neurovirulence. 	The flavivirus nonstructural glycoprotein NS1 is highly conserved and contains two N-linked glycosylation sites which are both utilized for addition of oligosaccharides during replication in cell culture. NS1 has been shown to contain epitopes for protective antibodies; however, its roles in virus replication and pathogenesis remain unknown. To study the function of NS1 during yellow fever virus replication, six mutant viruses which lack either one or both glycosylation sites and another one containing silent mutations at both sites were generated by site-directed mutagenesis. Mutants lacking the second glycosylation site and those bearing silent mutations were similar to the parental virus in their cell culture properties. Ablation of the first or both glycosylation sites generated mutants exhibiting small plaque phenotypes, decreased virus yields, reduced cytopathic effects, impaired NS1 secretion, and depressed RNA accumulation. In addition, mutants lacking the first or both glycosylation sites exhibited significant reduction in mouse neurovirulence after intracerebral inoculation. These defects appear to result from the lack of N-linked glycans rather than the introduction of deleterious amino acid substitutions or disruption of cis-acting RNA elements important for RNA replication. These results suggest an important role for NS1 in flavivirus RNA replication and pathogenesis. 
PMID:8822631	Gould AR	Virus Res. 43(1):17-31	1996	Comparison of the deduced matrix and fusion protein sequences of equine morbillivirus with cognate genes of the Paramyxoviridae. 	The nucleotide sequence of the matrix protein of equine morbillivirus (EMV) was determined to be 1062 nucleotides and coded for a deduced protein of M(r) 40148 having a net charge of + 19 at neutral pH. The matrix protein gene was separated from the P and F genes by intercistronic regions of 546 and 469 nucleotides, respectively. The nucleotide sequence which coded for the F protein was 1641 nucleotides and coded for a deduced protein of 546 amino acids having an M(r) of 60,447 and a charge + 4 at neutral pH. Partial sequence information was also determined for the P/V proteins. M, P and F protein sequence comparisons revealed that a greater homology existed between EMV and known members of the morbillivirus genus than with other members of the Paramyxoviridae and that this homology resided within the central half of the protein for the fusion protein, the C-terminal half of the matrix protein and at certain sites with the P protein. Far greater homology was seen between the morbilliviruses and EMV than for the other paramyxoviridae. It was inferred from phylogenetic analyses that EMV was a distantly related member of the morbillivirus genus. A conserved sequence of 18 nucleotides (assumed to be the transcriptional editing site) was present in the P gene of EMV. Insertion of a single nucleotide residue within this site generated the C-terminus of a V-like, cysteine rich protein. Likewise, a conserved 'CTT' intergenic region presumed to be the transcription termination and polyadenylation signal was present in EMV between the P-M-F genes. The close sequence homology of these sites with that of morbilliviruses also inferred that EMV was a member of the morbillivirus genus. 
PMID:8893791	Upadhyaya NM, Zinkowsky E, Kositratana W, Waterhouse PM	Arch Virol. 141(9):1689-701	1996	The M(r) 43K major capsid protein of rice ragged stunt oryzavirus is a post-translationally processed product of a M(r) 67,348 polypeptide encoded by genome segment 8. 	The nucleotide sequence of DNA complementary to rice ragged stunt oryzavirus (RRSV) genome segment 8 (S8) of an isolate from Thailand was determined. RRSVS8 is 1914 bp in size and contains a single large open reading frame (ORF) spanning nucleotides 23 to 1810 which is capable of encoding a protein of M(r) 67,348. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of a approximately 43K virion polypeptide matched to that inferred for an internal region of the S8 coding sequence. These data suggest that the 43K protein is encoded by S8 and is derived by a proteolytic cleavage. Predicted polypeptide sizes from this possible cleavage of S8 protein are 26K and 42K. Polyclonal antibodies raised against a maltose binding protein (MBP)-S8 fusion polypeptide (expressed in Escherichia coli) recognised four RRSV particle associated polypeptides of M(r) 67K, 46K, 43K and 26K and all except the 26K polypeptide were also highly immunoreactive to polyclonal antibodies raised against purified RRSV particles. Cleavage of the MBP-S8 fusion polypeptide with protease Factor X produced the expected 40K MBP and two polypeptides of apparent M(r) 46K and 26K. Antibodies to purified RRSV particles reacted strongly with the intact fusion protein and the 46K cleavage product but weakly to the 26K product. Furthermore, in vitro transcription and translation of the S8 coding region revealed a post-translational self cleavage of the 67K polypeptide to 46K and 26K products. These data indicate that S8 encodes a structural polypeptide, the majority of which is auto-catalytically cleaved to 26K and 46K proteins. The data also suggest that the 26K protein is the self cleaving protease and that the 46K product is further processed or undergoes stable conformational changes to a approximately 43K major capsid protein. 
PMID:8918922	Chung HK, Kordyban S, Cameron L, Dobos P	Virology. 225(2):359-68	1996	Sequence analysis of the bicistronic Drosophila X virus genome segment A and its encoded polypeptides. 	Drosophila X virus represents the entomobirnavirus genus of the Family Birnaviridae. Segment A of this bisegmented dsRNA containing virus was cloned and sequenced. The 3360-bp-long nucleotide sequence revealed the presence of two open reading frames (ORFs). A large ORF of 3096 nucleotides, which is flanked by a 107-bp 5' and a 157-bp 3'-untranslated region, and a 711-nucleotide-long small ORF located within the carboxy half of the large ORF but in a different reading frame. The large ORF encodes a 114-kDa polyprotein which is cotranslationally processed by the virus-coded protease VP4 to generate preVP2, VP3, and VP4 (VP1 is encoded by genome segment B). N-terminal amino acid sequencing of VP3 and VP4 established the order NH2-preVP2-VP4-VP3-COOH within the polyprotein. The small ORF straddles the VP4/VP3 junction and is capable of encoding a basic, arginine-rich 27-kDa polypeptide which so far has not been detected in infected cells. The amino acid sequences specified by the two ORFs were compared to those of infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (IPNV) and infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) that represent the two other genera (aquabirnavirus and avibirnavirus) of the Birnaviridae family. Significant sequence homology among the three viruses was found to be restricted to the amino and carboxy regions of preVP2 and to a small 21-residue-long domain near the carboxy terminal region of VP3. Significant sequence homology is exhibited by the small ORFs of the three viruses. 
PMID:9049339	Grieco F, Martelli GP, Savino V	J Gen Virol. 76 ( Pt 4):929-37	1995	The nucleotide sequence of RNA3 and RNA4 of olive latent virus 2. 	Olive latent virus 2 (OLV2), a virus with particle shapes resembling those of alfalfa mosaic alfamovirus (AMV), has four major RNA species, two of which (RNA3 and RNA4) were completely sequenced. RNA3 was a bicistronic molecule containing two clear-cut ORFs, one of which (ORF1) coded for a 36.5 kDa polypeptide with conserved motifs of the '30K superfamily' movement proteins and the other (ORF2) encoded a 20 kDa polypeptide identified as the viral coat protein. RNA4, which was a little smaller than RNA3 (2078 nt versus 2438 nt), also differed from RNA3 in a few positions, but its in vitro translation did not produce any protein. By contrast, an additional RNA, 1042 nt in size with strong sequence homology with RNA3 and RNA4, was identified in RNA extracts from infected plants. This RNA, which may be a subgenomic form of RNA3 carrying the coat protein cistron, is apparently encapsidated to a very small extent, or not at all. Comparative computer-assisted analysis of virus-coded protein sequences disclosed homologies suggesting that OLV2 may belong to the family Bromoviridae, but as an entity separated from the currently known genera. 
PMID:9049359	Ensser A, Fleckenstein B	J Gen Virol. 76 ( Pt 4):1063-7	1995	Alcelaphine herpesvirus type 1 has a semaphorin-like gene. 	Alcelaphine herpesvirus type 1, a rhadinovirus causing malignant catarrhal fever of ruminants, has an 1959 nucleotide open reading frame with significant homologies to semaphorin genes. While truncated genes of similar structure have been found in poxviruses, this is the first known example of a semaphorin-like gene in a herpesvirus. 
PMID:9151804|PMCID:191632	Neipel F, Albrecht JC, Fleckenstein B	J Virol. 71(6):4187-92	1997	Cell-homologous genes in the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated rhadinovirus human herpesvirus 8: determinants of its pathogenicity? 	 
PMID:9151859|PMCID:191687	Li Q, Spriggs MK, Kovats S, Turk SM, Comeau MR, Nepom B, Hutt-Fletcher LM	J Virol. 71(6):4657-62	1997	Epstein-Barr virus uses HLA class II as a cofactor for infection of B lymphocytes. 	Infection of B lymphocytes by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) requires attachment of virus via binding of viral glycoprotein gp350 to CD21 on the cell surface. Penetration of the cell membrane additionally involves a complex of three glycoproteins, gH, gL, and gp42. Glycoprotein gp42 binds to HLA-DR. Interference with this interaction with a soluble form of gp42, with a monoclonal antibody (MAb) to gp42, or with a MAb to HLA-DR inhibited virus infection. It was not possible to superinfect cells that failed to express HLA-DR unless expression was restored by transfection or creation of hybrid cell lines with complementing deficiencies in expression of HLA class II. HLA class II molecules thus serve as cofactors for infection of human B cells. 
PMID:9155884	Lindquester GJ, Greenamoyer CA, Anton ED, O'Brian JJ, Pellett PE, Dambaugh TR	Arch Virol. 142(1):193-204	1997	Comparison of a 20 kb region of human herpesvirus 6B with other human beta herpesviruses reveals conserved replication genes and adjacent divergent open reading frames. 	The sequence of a 20.15 kb region from human herpesvirus 6 variant B (HHV-6B) strain Z29 is described (GenBank accession number L14772). Determinations of protein homologies for seventeen predicted gene products revealed HHV-6B homologs of six proteins well-conserved both in genetic context and amino acid sequence throughout the alpha-, beta-, and gammaherpesvirus subfamilies. These include proteins involved in viral DNA replication, packaging and nucleotide metabolism, and conserved proteins of undefined function. The close evolutionary relationship of the human betaherpesviruses, HHV-6B, HHV-6A, HHV-7 and human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) was confirmed by identification of several protein sequences encoded only by these viruses, including homologs of the HCMV early phosphoprotein family and a series of HCMV open reading frames predicted to encode glycoprotein exons. Homologs of essential HSV-1 replication proteins, UL8 and UL9, were also identified. Downstream from the conserved replication locus, each betaherpesvirus contains a region of divergent, small open reading frames. The evolution of this region and its potential use in the development of a viral vector system are discussed. 
PMID:9191870	Hehn A, Fritsch C, Richards KE, Guilley H, Jonard G	Arch Virol. 142(5):1051-8	1997	Evidence for in vitro and in vivo autocatalytic processing of the primary translation product of beet necrotic yellow vein virus RNA 1 by a papain-like proteinase. 	Beet necrotic yellow vein virus RNA 1 contains a single long ORF corresponding to the theoretical translation product of 237 kDa which contains the information necessary for replication of the viral genome. This ORF contains a putative papain-like proteinase domain which has been localized, on the basis of sequence alignments, between the helicase and polymerase domains. Here we show that the RNA 1 primary translation product can be cleaved autocatalytically in vitro into two species of 150 kDa and 66 kDa, the latter of which probably contains the entire polymerase domain. A 66 kDa protein was detected immunologically in infected C. quinoa protoplasts using an antiserum specific for the C-terminal region of the RNA 1 primary translation product, confirming that processing also occurs in vivo. 
PMID:9229001	Ling KS, Zhu HY, Alvizo H, Hu JS, Drong RF, Slightom JL, Gonsalves D	Arch Virol. 142(6):1101-16	1997	The coat protein gene of grapevine leafroll associated closterovirus-3: cloning, nucleotide sequencing and expression in transgenic plants. 	A lambda ZAP II cDNA library was constructed by cloning cDNA prepared from a high molecular weight double-stranded RNA (dsRNA, ca. 18 kb) isolated from grapevine leafroll associated closterovirus-3 (GLRaV-3) infected tissues. This cDNA library was immuno-screened with GLRaV-3 coat protein specific polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies and three immuno-positive clones were identified. Analysis of nucleotide sequences from these clones revealed an open reading frame (ORF) which was truncated at the 3' end; the remainder of this ORF was obtained by sequencing a fourth clone that overlapped with one of the immunopositive clones. A total of 2028 bp was sequenced. The putative GLRaV-3 coat protein ORF, 939 bp, encodes a protein (referred to as p35) with a calculated M(r) of 34866. Multiple alignment of the p35 amino acid sequence with coat protein sequences from other closteroviruses revealed that the consensus amino acid residues (R and D) of filamentous plant viruses are preserved in the expected locations. The GLRaV-3 coat protein gene was then engineered for sense and antisense expression in transgenic plants. Transgenic Nicotiana benthamiana plants that contain the sense GLRaV-3 coat protein gene produced a 35 kDa protein that reacted with GLRaV-3 antibody in Western blot. 
PMID:9282786	Leahy MB, Dessens JT, Weber F, Kochs G, Nuttall PA	Virus Res. 50(2):215-24	1997	The fourth genus in the Orthomyxoviridae: sequence analyses of two Thogoto virus polymerase proteins and comparison with influenza viruses. 	The tick-borne Thogoto virus (THOV) is the type species of a newly recognized fourth genus, Thogotovirus, in the family Orthomyxoviridae. Because of the distant relationship of THOV with the influenza viruses, determination of its genomic information can potentially be used to identify important domains in influenza virus proteins. We have determined the complete nucleotide sequence of the second longest RNA segment of THOV. The molecule comprises 2212 nucleotides with a single large open reading frame encoding a protein of 710 amino acids, estimated Mr 81,284. The protein shares 77% amino acid similarity with the PB1-like protein of Dhori virus, a related tick-borne virus, and 50-53% with the PB1 polymerase proteins of influenza virus A, B and C. All the motifs characteristic of RNA-dependent polymerases were identified including the SSDD motif common to all RNA-dependent RNA polymerases, indicating that the THOV protein is functionally analogous to the influenza virus PB1 proteins and involved in chain elongation. We also report the corrected sequence of the third longest RNA segment of THOV, encoding a protein which shares 44-47% amino acid similarity with the PA-like polymerase proteins of influenza virus A, B and C. The biological significance of conserved domains in these orthomyxovirid proteins is discussed. 
PMID:9367376	Attoui H, De Micco P, de Lamballerie X	J Gen Virol. 78 ( Pt 11):2895-9	1997	Complete nucleotide sequence of Colorado tick fever virus segments M6, S1 and S2. 	The nucleotide sequences of the tenth (M6), eleventh (S1) and twelfth (S2) dsRNA genomic segments of the Florio strain (N-7180) of Colorado tick fever virus were determined and found to be 675, 998 and 1884 bp, respectively, in length. A nonanucleotide motif and a hexanucleotide motif were found to be highly conserved in the 5' and 3' non-coding regions (NCRs), respectively, of the three segments. The first and last three nucleotides of each segment were of inverted complementarity, and segment-specific inverted terminal repeats were detected in the NCRs of the three segments. These findings suggest the occurrence of intracellular panhandle structures for the RNA transcripts. A readthrough phenomenon is suspected in segment M6. The environment surrounding the opal codon (position 1052-1054) of segment M6 conforms to that of leaky opal codons described in the literature. 
PMID:9505971	Isawa H, Asano S, Sahara K, Iizuka T, Bando H	Arch Virol. 143(1):127-43	1998	Analysis of genetic information of an insect picorna-like virus, infectious flacherie virus of silkworm: evidence for evolutionary relationships among insect, mammalian and plant picorna(-like) viruses. 	We synthesized the cDNAs of an insect picornavirus, infectious flacherie virus of silkworm (IFV), genomic RNA and inserted it into a bacterial plasmid (pUC119). The 9,650 nucleotides (nts) sequence except for the poly(A) tail was obtained from the cloned cDNAs, and the sequence integrity was confirmed by primer extension and direct RNA sequencing. The sequence has a large open reading frame (ORF) of 9,255 nts (3,085 codons) flanked by the short 5' non-coding region (156 nts) and by the rather long 3' non-coding (239 nts). The structural proteins VP3, 4, 1 and 2 were located at the N-terminus of the polyprotein in this order and were preceded by a tentative small peptide. Computer analysis identified the sequences similar to the consensus sequences of 2C (helicase?), 3C (protease), and 3D (RNA polymerase) conserved among mammalian and plant picorna(-like) viruses. In addition, the predicted genome organization of IFV was quite similar to those of picornaviruses. Further analyses of the characteristics of the genome structure and a tentative phylogenetic tree constructed on the basis of the amino acid sequence similarity emphasized the evolutionary relationships among the insect and plant viruses. 
PMID:9520996	Muller DG, Kapp M, Knippers R	Adv Virus Res. 50:49-67	1998	Viruses in marine brown algae. 	 
PMID:9525681|PMCID:109852	Wang K, Huang S, Kapoor-Munshi A, Nemerow G	J Virol. 72(4):3455-8	1998	Adenovirus internalization and infection require dynamin. 	The cell receptors that facilitate adenovirus internalization into cells have been identified; however, the infectious pathway of virus entry has not been established. Adenovirus entry and infection were examined in HeLa cells lacking or overexpressing mutant dynamin, a protein that specifically regulates clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Expression of mutant dynamin significantly reduced adenovirus internalization and gene delivery, indicating a functional requirement for this molecule. These findings are consistent with virus entry via the clathrin-coated pit pathway. 
PMID:9621012|PMCID:110204	Wang X, Kenyon WJ, Li Q, Mullberg J, Hutt-Fletcher LM	J Virol. 72(7):5552-8	1998	Epstein-Barr virus uses different complexes of glycoproteins gH and gL to infect B lymphocytes and epithelial cells. 	The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) gH-gL complex includes a third glycoprotein, gp42. gp42 binds to HLA class II on the surfaces of B lymphocytes, and this interaction is essential for infection of the B cell. We report here that, in contrast, gp42 is dispensable for infection of epithelial cell line SVKCR2. A soluble form of gp42, gp42.Fc, can, however, inhibit infection of both cell types. Soluble gp42 can interact with EBV gH and gL and can rescue the ability of virus lacking gp42 to transform B cells, suggesting that a gH-gL-gp42.Fc complex can be formed by extrinsic addition of the soluble protein. Truncated forms of gp42.Fc that retain the ability to bind HLA class II but that cannot interact with gH and gL still inhibit B-cell infection by wild-type virus but cannot inhibit infection of SVKCR2 cells or rescue the ability of recombinant gp42-negative virus to transform B cells. An analysis of wild-type virions indicates the presence of more gH and gL than gp42. To explain these results, we describe a model in which wild-type EBV virions are proposed to contain two types of gH-gL complexes, one that includes gp42 and one that does not. We further propose that these two forms of the complex have mutually exclusive abilities to mediate the infection of B cells and epithelial cells. Conversion of one to the other concurrently alters the ability of virus to infect each cell type. The model also suggests that epithelial cells may express a molecule that serves the same cofactor function for this cell type as HLA class II does for B cells and that the gH-gL complex interacts directly with this putative epithelial cofactor. 
PMID:9645194	Oshima S, Daikoku T, Shibata S, Yamada H, Goshima F, Nishiyama Y	Arch Virol. 143(5):863-80	1998	Characterization of the UL16 gene product of herpes simplex virus type 2. 	We have raised rabbit polyclonal antisera against a His-tagged herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) UL16 fusion protein, one of which very specifically reacted with 40 kDa and 41 kDa proteins in the lysates of HSV-1 and HSV-2-infected cells, respectively. Since its reactivity to the 41 kDa protein was clearly eliminated by pre-adsorption with E. coli lysates expressing the UL16 fusion protein, the antiserum was used to characterize the UL16 products of HSV-2. The HSV-2 UL16 protein was produced at the late phase of infection in a manner highly dependent on viral DNA synthesis and was distributed in both the nuclei and the cytoplasma of infected cells. In immunofluorescence studies, the UL16-specific fluorescence in the nuclei was shown to be detected as small discrete granules. On the other hand, the cytoplasmic fluorescence was diffusely distributed around the nucleus at 8 h postinfection but, at later times of infection, it was mainly detected as a mass at a perinuclear region. The analysis on its association with capsids has revealed that the UL16 protein copurified with C capsids but not B and A capsids, and that the association with C capsids was not tight. Moreover, our experiments have shown that a detectable level of the UL16 protein was not associated with extracellular virions, and that the partially purified UL16 proteins had a DNA-binding activity. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that the UL16 protein plays a role in capsid maturation including DNA packaging/cleavage. We have also determined the complete nucleotide sequence of the HSV-2 UL16 gene and found that a nonstandard initiation codon may be used for its translation. 
PMID:9672627	Wanitchakorn R, Harding RM, Dale JL	Arch Virol. 142(8):1673-80	1997	Banana bunchy top virus DNA-3 encodes the viral coat protein. 	Banana bunchy top virus (BBTV) has a multicomponent genome consisting of at least six circular single-stranded DNAs each with a single large open reading frame (ORF) in the virion sense. A protein of approximately 20 kDa has been associated with purified virions and is assumed to be the viral coat protein. The N-terminus of this protein was sequenced and compared to the predicted amino acid sequence of the large ORF of BBTV DNA-1 to 6. This comparison indicated that the ORF of BBTV DNA-3, which potentially encodes a protein of 19.3 kDa, was the coat protein gene of BBTV. The ORF sequence of BBTV DNA-3 was cloned into a prokaryotic expression vector, pMAL-c2, and the resulting maltose binding-BBTV coat protein fusion product was purified and used for the production of polyclonal antiserum in a rabbit. The resultant antiserum was able to detect the presence of BBTV in infected leaf tissue confirming that the large virion sense ORF of BBTV DNA-3 encodes the viral coat protein. 
PMID:9672632	Upadhyaya NM, Ramm K, Gellatly JA, Li Z, Kositratana W, Waterhouse PM	Arch Virol. 142(8):1719-26	1997	Rice ragged stunt oryzavirus genome segments S7 and S10 encode non-structural proteins of M(r) 68,025 (Pns7) and M(r) 32,364 (Pns10). 	The nucleotide sequences of genome segments S7 and S10 of a Thai-isolate of rice ragged stunt virus (RRSV) were determined. The 1938 bp S7 sequence contains a single large open reading frame (ORF) spanning nucleotides 20 to 1843 that is predicted to encode a protein of M(r) 68,025. The 1,162 bp S10 sequence has a major ORF spanning nucleotides 142 to 1,032 that is predicted to encode a protein of M(r) 32,364. This S10 ORF is preceded by a small ORF (nt 20-55) which is probably a minicistron. Coupled in vitro transcription-translation from the two major ORFs gave protein products of the expected sizes. However, no protein was visualised from S10 when the small ORF sequence was included. Proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli from the full length ORF of S7 (P7) and from a segment of the S10 ORF (P10) fused to the ORF of glutathione S-transferase (GST). Neither fusion protein was recognised by polyclonal antibodies raised against RRSV particles. Furthermore, polyclonal antibodies raised against GST-P7 fusion protein did not recognise any virion structural polypeptides. These data strongly suggest that the proteins P7 and P10 do not form part of RRSV particle. This is further supported by observed sequence homology (though very weak) of predicted RRSV P7 and P10 with those of rice dwarf virus (RDV) non-structural proteins Pns6 and Pns9, respectively. 
PMID:9687875	Scott SW, Zimmerman MT, Ge X	Arch Virol. 143(6):1187-98	1998	The sequence of RNA 1 and RNA 2 of tobacco streak virus: additional evidence for the inclusion of alfalfa mosaic virus in the genus Ilarvirus. 	Here we describe the complete sequence of RNA 1 and 2 of the WC isolate of tobacco streak virus (TSV). These two sequences complete the information on the genome of TSV, the type member of the genus Ilarvirus, and are the first sequences described for the RNA 1 and RNA 2 of a member of subgroup 1 of this genus. The sequences have a similar organization to those reported for the corresponding RNAs of other ilarviruses. However, the putative translation products of these two molecules differ sufficiently from previously sequenced ilarviruses so that TSV should remain in a subgroup on its own. Phylogenetic comparison of sequence data for RNA 1 with that of other ilarviruses and alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV) reveals two distinct clusters (TSV, CiLRV, and SpLV) and (AMV, PDV, and ApMV). These data support the suggestion [16] based on data for RNA 3 of ilarviruses that AMV should be included as a true ilarvirus. 
PMID:9712515	Xie H, Cass AR, Barrett AD	Virus Res. 55(1):93-9	1998	Yellow fever 17D vaccine virus isolated from healthy vaccinees accumulates very few mutations. 	The live attenuated yellow fever (YF) vaccine strain 17D is one of the safest vaccines in use today with only 22 cases of reversion to virulence documented from over 300 million doses administered. We have isolated virus in cell culture from sera of six volunteers who received 17D vaccine and found that very few nucleotide mutations were detected in the consensus sequence of the entire genome of each of the serum viruses. Moreover, most of these mutations accumulated in the non-structural protein genes, especially the NS5 protein gene. Although no nucleotide change was identified in the structural protein genes of any of these six serum viruses, minor sequence heterogeneity existed in the serum virus population. Our results indicate that 17D vaccine virus accumulates mutations at a very low frequency and may explain in part the excellent safety record of 17D vaccine. 
PMID:9714237	Xie H, Ryman KD, Campbell GA, Barrett AD	J Gen Virol. 79 ( Pt 8):1895-9	1998	Mutation in NS5 protein attenuates mouse neurovirulence of yellow fever 17D vaccine virus. 	The 17D-204 vaccine manufactured in South Africa (17D-204-SA) and a large plaque variant (17D-LP) derived from it were highly virulent in adult mice. The LD50 of 17D-LP virus was 0-2 p.f.u. for mice following intracerebral inoculation. In comparison, a medium plaque variant derived from 17D-LP, termed 17D-MP virus, was found to be attenuated in adult mice following the same route of inoculation (&gt; 10(4) p.f.u./LD50). Replication of 17D-MP virus was decreased in infected mouse brains compared to 17D-LP virus. Also, 17D-MP virus was slightly temperature sensitive at 39.5 degrees C. Compared to its parent viruses, 17D-204-SA and 17D-LP, 17D-MP virus had one unique mutation at nt 8045 in the genome which resulted in a single amino acid substitution (Pro --&gt; Ser) at residue 137 of the NS5 protein and appeared to be the mutation responsible for the attenuation of 17D-MP virus. This is the first time that altered virulence of a flavivirus caused by mutation in a non-structural protein gene, other than NS1, has been reported. 
PMID:9722876	Sroller V, Kutinova L, Nemeckova S, Simonova V, Vonka V	Arch Virol. 143(7):1311-20	1998	Effect of 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase gene deletion on virulence and immunogenicity of different vaccinia viruses and their recombinants. 	3-beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-beta-HSD) activity coded for by the A44L gene of vaccinia virus (VV) was demonstrated in CV-1 cultures infected by all five VV strains tested, viz. WR, Praha virus, DRYVAX Wyeth-derived virus (DD), LIVP and MVA. Deletion of the A44L gene in two Praha virus-derived clones (the moderately virulent P13 and the highly attenuated P20), the WR and DD viruses resulted in absence of 3-beta-HSD activity from infected cultures. The virulence for mice of P13 was not affected, and that of WR was only slightly decreased, by the A44L gene deletion. Recombinant VVs expressing either varicella-zoster virus glycoprotein E (VZV-gE) or hepatitis B virus preS2-S protein (HBV-preS2-S) and their respective A44L deleted mutants were used in immunogenicity tests in mice. In terms of antibody response to VV and the recombinant proteins, the deletion resulted in a lowering the immunogenicity in the moderately virulent clone P13 virus and its progenies. In the highly attenuated P20 and DD viruses and their progenies no effects were apparent. 
PMID:9747739	Kang W, Tristem M, Maeda S, Crook NE, O'Reilly DR	J Gen Virol. 79 ( Pt 9):2283-92	1998	Identification and characterization of the Cydia pomonella granulovirus cathepsin and chitinase genes. 	A 3.2 kb BamHI-EcoRI fragment of the Cydia pomonella granulovirus (CpGV) genome was subcloned and characterized. Sequence analysis revealed two complete and one partial open reading frames (ORFs). ORF7L is predicted to encode a 66.7 kDa protein (594 amino acid residues) that is 57% identical (amino acid sequence) to the chiA gene (ORF126) of Autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus (AcMNPV), encoding a chitinase. ORF8R is 333 amino acids in length and shows high similarity (between 64% and 67%) with baculovirus cathepsins. The partial ORF, ORF5L, is related to AcMNPV ORF145 of unknown function. Phylogenetic trees were constructed for both chitinase and cathepsin sequences from baculoviruses and other species. In both cases, the baculovirus sequences were monophyletic but with a deep division between the GVs and NPVs, suggesting both genes were present in an ancestral virus prior to the separation of the two genera. However, these studies did not provide definitive evidence for the origin of either protein in baculoviruses. To investigate CpGV cathepsin function, a rescue experiment was performed using a Bombyx mori NPV (BmNPV) mutant (BmCysPD) which lacks a functional cathepsin (cath) gene. Larvae infected with BmCysPD-Cp.cat, a BmCysPD derivative carrying CpGV cath, showed similar symptoms to wild-type BmNPV infected insects, confirming that CpGV cath encodes a functional cathepsin. Primer extension analysis of mRNA from BmCysPD-Cp.cat infected cells showed that CpGV cath transcription was initiated from a consensus late transcription motif (ATAAG) within the CpGV sequences, indicating that a CpGV late promoter motif was recognized in this NPV system. 
PMID:9787657	Niagro FD, Forsthoefel AN, Lawther RP, Kamalanathan L, Ritchie BW, Latimer KS, Lukert PD	Arch Virol. 143(9):1723-44	1998	Beak and feather disease virus and porcine circovirus genomes: intermediates between the geminiviruses and plant circoviruses. 	Circoviruses are a diverse group of animal and plant pathogens with undefined relationships to one another but for their non-geminate, non-enveloped capsids and circular, single-stranded DNA genomes. The sequences of the beak and feather disease virus and porcine circovirus genomic DNAs are presented and analyzed in the context of the other members of the family. Sequence comparisons, inferred phylogenies, and geographic occurrence suggest that the ambisense circoviruses, particularly the beak and feather disease virus, represent an evolutionary link between the geminiviruses and the plant circoviruses. We propose that the family members be reclassified into three groups: The family Circoviridae consists of the animal pathogens (beak and feather disease virus and porcine circovirus) that possess ambisense genomes with striking similarities to the geminiviruses. The BBTV-like viruses include the plant pathogens (coconut foliar decay virus, banana bunchy top virus, subterranean clover stunt virus) with a geminivirus-like stem-loop element in their DNAs, and single to multiple component genomes. The chicken anemia virus is an unassigned virus possessing unique characteristics bearing little similarity to the other ssDNA viruses. 
PMID:9787664	Upadhyaya NM, Ramm K, Gellatly JA, Li Z, Kositratana W, Waterhouse PM	Arch Virol. 143(9):1815-22	1998	Rice ragged stunt oryzavirus genome segment S4 could encode an RNA dependent RNA polymerase and a second protein of unknown function. 	The complete nucleotide sequence of genome segment S4 of rice ragged stunt oryzavirus (RRSV, Thai-isolate) was determined. The 3823 bp sequence contains two large open reading frames (ORFs). ORF1, spanning nucleotides 12 to 3776, is capable of encoding a protein of M(r) 141,380 (P4a). The P4a amino acid sequence predicted from the nucleotide sequence contains sequence motifs conserved in RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RDRPs). When compared for evolutionary relationships with RDRPs of other reoviruses using the amino acid sequences around the conserved GDD motif, P4a was shown to be more related to Nilaparvata lugens reovirus and reovirus serotype 3 than to rice dwarf phytoreovirus, bovine rotavirus or bluetongue virus. The ORF2, spanning nucleotides 491 to 1468, is out of frame with ORF1 and is capable of encoding a protein of 36,920 (P4b). Coupled in vitro transcription-translation from cloned ORF2 in wheat germ extract confirmed the existence of ORF2 but in vivo production and possible function of P4b is yet to be determined. 
PMID:9787666	Mao ZJ, Li Y, Xu H, Zheng HH, Schiemann J, Casper R, Chen ZL	Arch Virol. 143(9):1831-8	1998	The 42K protein of rice dwarf virus is a post-translational cleavage product of the 46K outer capsid protein. 	The outer capsid protein (P8) heterogeneity of rice dwarf virus (RDV) exists not only in purified virus particles, but also in RDV-infected rice, transgenic rice expressing P8, E. coli expression of P8 product and the in vitro translation products of S8. N-terminal amino acid sequencing revealed that P8 is a cleavage product of P8'. The cleavage occurs specifically at the residues of Asp362 and Pro363. The function of the proteolytic processing is unknown. 
PMID:9870593	Hays JP, Myint SH	J Virol Methods. 75(2):179-93	1998	PCR sequencing of the spike genes of geographically and chronologically distinct human coronaviruses 229E. 	A reverse transcription nested PCR (RT-PCR) sequencing methodology was developed and used to generate sequence data from the spike genes of three geographically and chronologically distinct human coronaviruses 229E. These three coronaviruses were isolated originally from the USA in the 1960s (human coronavirus 229E strain ATCC VR-74), the UK in the 1990s (human coronavirus 229E LRI 281) and Ghana (human coronavirus 229E A162). Upon translation and alignment with the published spike protein sequence of human coronavirus 229E 'LP' (isolated in the UK in the 1970s), it was found that variation within the translated protein sequences was rather limited. In particular, minimal variation was observed between the translated spike protein sequence of human coronaviruses 229E LP and ATCC VR-74 (1/1012 amino acid differences), whilst most variation was observed between the translated spike protein sequence of human coronaviruses 229E LP and A162 (47/1012 amino acid changes). Further, the translated spike protein sequence of human coronavirus 229E A162 showed three clusters of amino acid changes, situated within the 5' half of the translated spike protein sequence. 
